=== RestClient with Simple code example (48s - 301s) ===

other alternatives of rest templates. So we can say that there are two alternative one is web client another is rest client. So here if you see the web client is a asynchronous non-blocking in nature means client do not wait for the response from the server before continuing. So this is used in reactive programming generally when we will learn about spring web flux I will cover web client into that one but generally we are covering synchronous communication right. So rest client is a synchronous blocking in nature like like a rest template. So means client wait for the response from the server before continuing. Okay. And it is introduced in spring framework 6 plus and spring boot 3 plus. Okay. So you can say that this is a modern fluentbased API that is more readable and easy to maintain. Okay. And this is more frequently used than rest template. We will see why. Okay. Now we have used one word fluent based API. What is that? Very very important. We need to understand this. Then only we would be able to get how rest actually works. Otherwise we might have to do lot of remembering thing like okay now which method I have to use. Okay so let's start with first very basic example let's say that if order service has to invoke product service what has to be done in rest line. Okay then we will see that like okay once it is done how exactly it is working. So we have a order service which is running on localhost 8081 and the product service I am running it on different port 8082. Now this is the first part in the app config I am creating an object of restclient. So I am creating restclient dot create. Internally it is calling uh restclient dot builder dot build. So internally it does this or you can even itself call restclient.builder.build. Okay. So this will create you a new object of restclient. It will give you a new object of rest client. Okay. So that is the first step we have done. Get an object of the rest client. So in the second I have written very simple controller like we have seen in the rest template also. Okay. So I have uh written one API/order / id and this is my get method. So here I am using this restclient object which is created. Okay. So I'm autoiring it here. Rest client. Now see this rest client dot get dot URI which the exact URI which I want to hit or which I want to invoke dot retrieve dot body. This is the body I wanted for my response string.class. So that's why I'm retrieving it in string only. And here if you see I am just printing out system dot dot print ln response from product API which is called from order service. And whatever the response this is sending is this one and output is order call successful. Now when I hit in the post band, okay, I called this / order /1 /order / one. So order call is successful and in the logs it should print this response from product API call from order service and this is what I got from the product service what it return string. So here if you
