=== RestClient Exchange framework flow (2684s - 3004s) ===

Okay. Now let's see a little bit inside into the exchange method. So once we call the exchange either by directly us or this response it spec itself internally when we call dot body or dot2 entity internally it call exchange method of this one it call exchange method of this one right so let's see its implementation so this is the implementation of exchange Okay. So this is the first step where it create a request. Okay. This is the place where it actually creates a object of HTTP client and remember that in rest client this HTTP client is different than in HTTP 1.1. Okay, this is different object. I will show you. So this is the first. So here if you see second is calling execute. This is where internally it calls uh create TCP correction send request get response and once you get the response we have to do the mapping. So here it is calling exchange function dot exchange. So we are running the exchange function. So whatever the functions we were passing here right we saw that this exchange function this one this is exchange function okay and uh here we are passing this exchange function if we are using this response spec which tells us how to map the response and how to handle the exception. So this is running at the third step. Once you get the response, it will run the exchange function. So first it is calling the create request which it returns which it calls this default factory which is JDK client HTTP request factory. This is in the rest line. This is the default. It will create an object of HTTP client. Again this HTTP client is different than what we use in HTTP 1 uh HTTP 1.1 version. This HTTP client is present inside this package java.net.http HTTP and this HTTP client supports takes care of everything TCP connection caching your sending request response right it takes care of everything also this HTTP uh client has support for HTTP version 1.1 and HTTP version two. Remember that rest template can only handle 1.0 and 1.1. It can handle till two. If you remember HTTP version two can send client server can send multiple concurrent request HTTP request and the server can concurrently send the response. But in 1.1 it's always like request response request response. So if you want HTTP version two you have to use the rest client because this latest HTTP client object provides support for that. Okay. So it creates an object of HTTP client returns it. Okay. After that it will call the execute method. This execute method internally calls the send a sing. Okay. So we have already created an object of HTTP client. So using that it calls the send a sync. Even though it's a send a sync it's not actually rest client is a synchronous. So it actually wait for the response. It here it do wait it wait for the rest it to finish. So I told you this HTTP client internally takes care of connection caching support provide support sending request getting the response and ultimately it give us the response. Now once we get the response it calls the third exchange function. Exchange function you know that which now know how to handle the response. So here we have created one exchange function. How if error comes how to handle it? If this exception come throw this exception. If this exception comes throw this error. So otherwise how to map the body either in a string or either map to some different object. So all this logic present inside this here which now executed at this point of time. Okay. So this is the highle flow for
