=== Exception handling with RestClient (2199s - 2684s) ===

API. Now let's go and see exception handling. So now I'm very going very specific going inside this response spec. Okay. So see this one I am creating a controller. So I have written I want to do a get call dot get. I specify the URI the endpoint which I want to hit when I call dot retrieve. Now we know that when we call retrieve we get an object of response spec. Okay. So it creates so we have a constructor in this constructor it set this object request header spec because from here itself we are invoking from request header spec if you remember the diagram from request header spec itself we are calling the retrieve okay so it has the reference so this gets set okay but now I got an object of the response spec Now till now nothing happened. So the even though the name said retrieve I am not retrieving the response. I am not hitting the client uh server. I am not getting the actual response. It is just giving me the response object. That's all. Nothing much till now. Response object means this response spec object. Now I am filling it up. First I am telling it on status. I am telling it that once you get a response in future how you should handle the exception. So I'm calling it on status method and it has a response error handler which has this. So response error handler is a functional uh interface which has this method has error. It's it has only one abstract method has error which accept response. So I am providing its lambda expression response. If response is 4x means some invalid input request then I'm just saying my custom exception throw this else if if response is 5xx something wrong at the server side itself there. Okay, so it's an internal server or uh just put internal server error. Okay, we don't know what exception come. Okay, otherwise return false has error. No, no error. Okay. So this implementation so this implementation I passed into this handler and now this when this on status get invoked after retrieve I get an object of response spec from this response spec I called on status. So it update the status handler this field. Okay. So with this info whatever the info I provided here that if for access this implementation this implementation ultimately gets set into this status handler. Okay. And after that it will return me an object. So what object on status is returning? On status is returning where it is on status is returning with the same response spec itself. So I am whatever the object which I'm getting it is like body is itself the same. So I'm getting the response spec object itself. Then I invoke the body. Now in the body if you see what happened just see little bit uh more concentration here. So in body I tell whatever the response I get I need to map to string. Okay. So now here if you see the body in the body what exactly happen is it calls execute and extract which internally call this exchange method. But what I am passing here I am passing it this when I called exchange it has it required this exchange function. this exchange function I am providing here actually it is the framework which is providing request response read body okay how you should once you get a response how you should handle it so here if you see this read body has like message converter like whatever the first you handle the status handler we have already had uh set the status handler right if status is four access throw this exception if it is five access throw this exception else false move ahead and after that it will go and whatever the response I get it will convert to its this type string dotclass it will do mapping it will do mapping to this so all this logic I provided into this lambda expression this function okay so once now at this point of time I will call TCP HTTP request and once I get the response ultimately then it will execute this function. We'll see that. Okay. So on status is used for handling the exception and this is way how we can handle the exception. So if you want full control over response building. So someone says that hey why I have to call from here? Why I have to do retrieve? Why my control first go to here and from again I have to come to this okay why I since when I am in this method okay I added the accept I added the header instead of calling retrieve can I directly call exchange and I I will provide the my implementation that how the response should be handled yeah you can do that that's what I am doing it here so I did the at it returned me an object. From there I called the URI. URI returned me an object. From there I called the dot exchange itself. Okay. Because after URI I reach to this point. I reach to this point. After URI I reach to this point. From there I directly call exchange. I don't call retrieve now because retrieve only helps me in providing this implementation. Right? This implementation. this implementation okay retrieve only help me getting this implementation so I'm providing my uh since this is a function interface I'm providing my implementation here so request response if response is 4xx do this if it is 5xs do this else this is how you should map the response which once you will get from the server so whatever the response dot get body I am currently doing mapping to string I'm read I'm from the stream I am copying it to string object okay now you don't need this response spec now you don't need response spec methods you don't want on status you don't want body you don't want two entity you don't want anything because you have already passed the exchange function like how you should handle the
