=== What is Fluent API (301s - 577s) ===

see this is the template which we are going to use for all different operation like post, put, delete. But here if you see its structure it's fluent. So what is fluent? Now you can ask one question. Hey you are saying fluent. This is fluent API. What exactly fluent API means? So see understand this one. Fluent API means Fluent API means chaining of methods. Chaining of methods. So what generally happen is you have method one. Method one it is returning an object. It is returning an object which opens up different set of method. Let's say method two, method three, method four. Okay. So first you call method one. Method one returns you an object which has this methods. You can now call any of this method. Okay. Now this method might return you different object which opens up different set of methods. So what we are doing is we are doing chaining. From method one we got some object which opens up different set of methods. So I from method one I reach to method four. From method four I reach to method six. From method six I reach to some method 8. Something like that. So there is a chaining of method. Okay. So that's what we are doing here. We are doing a chaining of method. So these methods like dot get dot uri dot retrieve dot body they might not be present into just one class. Okay let's say this is class one this is class 2 this is class 3 this is class 4. So all these methods could be present into different different classes itself. But the chaining is happening when I did dot get it return me some object right different different class object which has this URI method. This dot URI might return me some object of totally different class which has this retrieve. Now this retrieve again in turn return me an object which has totally different which belongs to totally different class. this object and which has the body method. So you got it. I am doing a method chaining and this method might be present into different different methods. Okay. So that is known as fluent API. I will show you how we are achieving this so that we don't have to uh mug up this thing that okay first I have to use get then I have to use URI then I have to use retrieve or what is the purpose of using the retrieve? Why I have to keep body at last? Right? Because sequence matters, right? In the chaining because when we are saying chaining, the chain should not break. The chain should not break. If I directly call this method m_sub_2 of class 2, it returning me an object of let's say this object it return me an object of this class. So I can only goes to now m class 3 only. I can't now move back to class one this method one. So chain will get break. Okay. So sequence meth matters in the chaining of methods and in the fluent API. Okay. And this is just an example for get no matter we are going to use post put delete we are going to follow the same template. We don't have to remember different different method overloaded methods which is there in the rest template. Okay, so that's what I told you. What does fluent API means? Fluent API means chaining of method calls. Each call, each method call returns an object of next step. Okay, that expose next set of operations. I have already explained what when we say when I say fluent API what exactly it means. So now our next doubt is how this
