=== Class diagram of RestClient Fluent API (577s - 920s) ===

chaining works in rest client. So that we understand better how this dot get dot uri dot header dot after that retrieve then dot body will work. how it's working like this sequence is right but I don't have to remember it right so how to grabs the like base so that we don't have to remember that okay hey can I use header before URI or what if URI I can use after retrieve is it possible does chaining break or not so let's see this class diagrams So this class diagram you can say that this is the start of chain first this is the start of chain rest line. So in the first step we are already creating a object of rest line right once we get the object of rest client then we have different methods right we can invoke get post put delete okay then this is the second so here if you see these has many interfaces URI spec which expose methods related to setting the URI either you can give me a string or You can create a URI builder itself and then return with the URI. Okay. Then you have one interface for request header respect which has various method to set the headers and cookies. Then we have one interface which is child of both URI spec. So it extends URI spec and request header spec. Similarly, we have one uh interface for body. So during post and put we need to set the content type, content length, body, right? So this interface expose those methods. Then there is an interface which is a child of both like uh request header URI. It's a child of request header URI and the request body spec. And then there is one implementation method default request body URI spec. So it it's an implementation of this which ultimately provide implementation for all of these abstract methods. It all it provide the implementation for all of this. So you can say that this is ultimately the request no matter whether if you are creating get then also this object has to be created. If you are building post or put or delete, no matter what operation you are doing, we have to create an object of this. And forget, we might have to fill up some operation. For post, we might have to fill up some fields like I need to fill up the body. So now the only thing is how to fill up this. But one thing is second step is we have to create an object of this. But we have to do chaining like first I have to set URI then I can set headers then I can set body then what next. Okay so request buildup and also if you see this is the third part where we have something called response spec. Okay response spec actually knows how to handle the response. So once we get a response from the server we have to do its mapping like I have to map whatever the object I'm getting I have to map it to string or I have mapped I have to map it to this object okay and also if there is an exception how to do an exception handling like if a status is 4xx how what to do if a status is 5xx what to do. So this interface response spec has support us like on status. So this is used for exception handling. Okay. And here if you see it has a method like to entity to uh body which ultimately helps in like uh calling the execute method or you can say that actual internally it actually invoke the method which is responsible for creating TCP connection sending HTTP request getting the response. Okay. And after that this interface and this concrete class itself help us in what once the response we get back how to handle the response. We'll see that. But this is a very high level I'm telling you these are the classes which we are going to use in our get put post operation. But now we just need to see how the chaining works. Okay. So first thing first you need to know a little bit about generic class and wild card in Java which I have already covered in the Java series. Okay. So here if you see there are lot of uh generic types we are using. We are using wild card we are using generic types right. So you should not get confused that what exactly and how it is working. So now let's start with
