=== POST flow in RestClient (1689s - 2100s) ===

Got it? So similarly let's see a post and while we reach till the delete right this whole diagram will get clear to you for sure. Okay. So first thing first creating an object of rest client. Now first thing I'm doing is calling post. So now restclient has post method. The same post will do creating an object of this and sending the HTTP method to post and it returns this object default request. So here what is the return type? Request body URI spec is it valid? So this default request body URI is a child of request body URI spec. Request body URI spec we are sending. So it's a valid. So I'm sending it this its parent only. Okay. So I created an object of this but return type I put it as this and it's a valid because it's a parent of this one. Okay. So now I reach till this point from this point it's a child of uh so this is its parent one this is parent two interfaces right so I can invoke methods which is here invoke method which is here and which is again a child of uh this class and this class. So means from this point I can invoke any method either URI either accept header retrieve exchange body any method because this class is a child of all. So what I did I call the URI because chaining matters I don't want to break the chain. If I call except I can't move back to URI because nobody is returning me an object of URI spec again. So that's why from here I call the URI. So URI will set me the URL and what its return type. Now understand that what would be the return type. So here if you see it is a child of request header URI spec and what is the type it is passing request body spec. Okay. So now this will translate to request body spec which is this one. Okay. And is it fulfilling this either child either parent request respect or any of its child. So here this is parent or any of its child. So this is its child this is child. So I'm putting one of its child only. request body specs is child of this only. So it's a valid one. Okay. And in the URI spec I'm passing this what I'm getting. So here itself this get translated to request body spec and ultimately this s itself is request body spec object. So means I reach till this point. Now sorry. So now in the URI return me an object of request body spec which has its own methods to set the body. Okay. Set the body, set the content type, content length. It has many methods. So now we can invoke that and also we can invoke its parent. We can also invoke its parent except header retrieve. So I am calling the its parent method except I'm calling its parent method except so it will set the header but what would be its return type? Its return type is s. So here if you see this request body spec extend the parent and pass what is the type? This itself. So this type is translate to request body spec itself and this s it s get translated to this request body spec means this class itself. So means this return type is this object itself. So I will reach to this point itself again. So after accept I got an object of request body spec itself. From there I decided again to call the parent which it return me an S which is again object of request body spec itself. Then I call the body method which is present inside this sorry which which is present inside this. I set the body because during post operation let's say I want to create a new operation. I set the body. Okay. And it returns me same object. Now from there I call the retrieve because still I can call the parent mode. Right? So I call the retrieve. So I reach till this point now. So from retrieve what it will do is it will get me an object of default response back. It will create me an object of this which is used to uh to handle the response and it returns me this response respect. So now this return me an object of different class response respect and then I call the two entity of that one. So I call the response respect two entity. So two entity if you see that it will internally invoke the exchange method which is present inside this header itself and this exchange implementation is present here in its implementation and all the request is already properly filled up headers and all. So it knows how to make a connection. What it is coming from here is I already told you that we call this exchange method. But in the exchange function we tell we this is a uh lambda expression. We pass the functionality how to handle response, how to handle status or exception handling and do I need to close the connection response connection or not? True false. So that info come from this and your flow get completes. So at this point of time internally it calls this exchange method which create TCP connection send request get response do mapping and give us the
