=== GET flow in RestClient (920s - 1689s) ===

the get operation. So here the first thing which we are doing is creating an object of rest line. So either you can do dot create or you can do dot builder dot build right. Okay. So internally create also does the same thing only. Okay. So objective here is first get an object of rest line. Now once we get an object of rest client what I am doing now see the chaining the first I am calling dot get method. So here if you go into the restclient interface okay when you invoke a get it creates an object of this class default request body ur. So as I told you that ultimately we have to create an object of this because it has all the fields which is required to make a TCP connection to send HTTP request and the response also how to handle the response. So ultimately this object we have to create. So during get it creates an object of default request body URI spare and set it HTTP method to get. Okay. And what is the return type it is returning? It is returning request header URI specs. The next object. Okay. So I am creating an object of this. See. So this object it's a child of request body URI spec which is again a child of request header URI spec which is I am returning. So it's a valid return type even though I'm creating an object of this and returning this but the return type I can write this okay because this is a parent of this one. So from the get I am done. This returns me an object of request header URI spec. Okay. So now I am here from this I have see this is a child of two interfaces means I can invoke from here I can invoke the method of this interface and this interface. Okay. So now next set of operations got open. So currently I am going and invoking dot URI. So also see the how sequencing matter the chain should not break. Okay, I will also show you one of the flow where the chain breaks also. So from here request header URI spec I decided to invoke the URI method. Okay. Okay. Since this URI interface which one is the implementation the same one we have already created an object in the uh step one. So this URI it will fill up this URI. So I invoke this method URI and pass the string. So internally it will create a URI object of this using some URI builder and set this field into this object. Now what its return type? Its return type is this any child or even this class itself. So s extend. So what does it mean? s extends and let's say class name. So this mean that the return type or here what what the type here is the type here could be any either this class this class name a let's say any class which is child of this class name a or this itself so either this class name a itself or any child of it. So child one child two child three. So here I can get either class name A or C1 child one or child two or child three all are valid okay that's what because I am bounding the limit of the type what I can get here in the URI spec what I can get here either I can get this type or its child type so either I can get this type request header spec or it's any of its child. Okay. So now since I don't know what child it is because request header spec which is this request header spec it has many child. So this is child one. This is child two. This is child three. It could be many childs right? I don't know specifically which child it is corresponding to because here I'm sending wild card. So I don't know because the same wild card is passed to here. Same wild card is passed to here. So I don't know which child I am referring to. So it uses by default the parent. Okay. So now I do URI return me an object of the next class or interface which is request header spec. So s is now request header spec. So now I am calling accept method. So it is calling the accept method on this interface and it has its implementation might be provided here. Except implementation would be there. So it might be setting some header. Okay. Now what is the return type of this s here itself? So s extends request header spec. Again the same thing the type could be request header spec. The same class it is now calling to its same itself or it's any of its child. But since we don't know what child it is either child one, child two or child three. The by default it is pointing to itself request header respect. So for the except method return type it's itself. Okay. So you are getting an object but that object is the same same class itself. Now here I am calling more methods like dot header. So I am also able to set the header. So I'm calling invoking a method which is present in now the same class. So this header also return type is s which is again it's of same type same class type. Okay. So from header I also get a return object which is again of a same type. So I'm able to call the method retrieve which is also present into the same class. So retrieve is also present here in this itself. So I invoke retrieve. Now the when I call retrieve its return type is different. Now means it is returning me an object of some different class. Okay. So what it does? So retrieve creates an object of this response spec. So default response spec is an implementation of this. So it create an object and return me this. So I'm getting an object of response spec now. So I'm getting an object of response specs means I am getting a new object which has different set of methods. Now I can call methods which are present into the objects which this retrieve has returned. So I got a response spec object. So from there I called the body. So I called the body. So its implementation is present here. So this body internally calls the method which actually does the work of creating a TCP connection and sending this. So here it invokes the exchange method and exchange method is again present into this header spec. Okay. So it is calling this one. Okay. So the reason why we come from request header respect to this response respect because in the body before we calling this exchange method which actually handles create a TCP connection send the request get the response we are passing this functional interface implementation here like how to how to do the mapping of response. How to handle the exception. We provide the implementation of this functional interface and then call this and this here it provide an implementation of exchange where ultimately it goes ahead and create a TCP connection send a request and get a response. So here if you see the flow become complete but I will also show you like if we don't follow the sequence how the flow breaks. Okay, don't worry about first of all don't worry about if you don't understand response respect clearly if you don't understand how this connection is happening how this exchange work currently I want you to focus on the flow how this understand fluent API what is fluent API so even though we are calling this sequence of methods how exactly it moves from one class to different class then another to different class okay so chaining of methods which are present into different different classes. Okay. So see can a flow be broken if you don't follow a sequence. Let's see that I create an object of the rest client. I do restclient dot get. When I did a get you know that what happened? It will create me an object of this and it will set the HTTP method get and return me an object of request header URI spec which is a valid even though I'm returning this object because this is ultimately a child of this only. So it's a valid return type. So now I got an object. So I am here now. So from this I have an option to call URI or this methods because this class it's a child of both. It's a child of both. So now instead of calling URI I decided to call the except. So now I am calling this except. So what except will do except uh set the header. It's inside a header. It will set except application/json header and value. Okay. But what its return type? return type is S which is either request header spec which is the same class or any of its child since we don't know which child it is child one child two child three because currently it is coming as from here it is coming as question mark wild card and the same we have passed here okay so it is coming as a wild card but we know that either it's a request header respect or any of its child but since we don't know the exact child it's always safe to treat it as the same parent only. Okay. So it is now returning an object of itself request header respect. So this returning an object of the same request header respect. So now can you call URI now? No. because this is a total different uh interface which has this URI method and it is now not present into request header spec now the chain is broken you can't set the URI so means you you can't even send the request because URI is not itself set so you have to follow a proper sequence that uh from method one I goes to method two from method two I goes to method three like this and the chain complete
