=== Request Interceptor with RestClient (3004s - 3174s) ===

it. Now one more thing is if you see interceptor work is also very simple into the rest client. So I have an order service product service. Now if I have to add an interceptor first what I have did is I have created an interceptor my custom request interceptor and implement the client HTTP request interceptor. H you have to implement this one. Now you have to provide an implementation of this method. So what I have to do is whatever the request I have I am fetching its header. Now I am adding certain more data. So I'm intercepting the request and adding appending some value. So I have appended one header and proceed the execution now. Okay. So it provide me all the methods. I have to just say that okay I have intercepted it. I have done whatever. Now you go ahead and execute. Okay. So that is the first thing we have to do. And the second while creating a restclient instance right we can call dobuilder.build. build. So there we can set the interceptor. So this is our interceptor which we have created. So I have created an object of my interceptor here and I have set it here. So while creating an object of rest client, we can set an interceptor and that's all. So this is as it is what we have written before. I have a rest line. I did dot get dot URI dot retrieve to entity and that's all. Ultimately if you see when the control comes here invoke it it has the header X custom header my value whatever I have intercepted and set. Okay. And if the question coming to your mind that at what place in this uh so we have an exchange right we have seen step one step two and step three in what exact place this interception catch. So if you see when we do execute this is the place where we call TCP connection send the request receive the response. So before calling this method the interceptor will get invoked. So before this method interceptor get invoke and after that we just uh here interceptor got invoke we did whatever we have to do on request after that we have to call execute so that it can move ahead okay so this is all about rest line to
