=== Writing our own Cutom Load Balancer (2081s - 2355s) ===

Okay. So now question next come is what if you want to write your own custom load balancer. You don't want to use roundroin. You don't want to use random. You want to write your own custom logic. So if you understand this hierarchy like these are interfaces reactive load balancer reactor load balancer reactor service instance load balancer and these are the concrete classes round robin and random so we have to create a child custom load balancer just in inside this okay and we have to provide an implementation of this choose method so that's what I did so here I provide my custom load balancer created a child of reactor service instance load balancer. This one child of this. Okay. And here I have a constructor. The constructor take two part like we have seen like in here if you see like new round robin load balancer. It this does constructor take two parts. One is your service instance list supplier object and another is service ID. the same thing the constructor which require service instance supplier and the service id and we have to provide an implementation of the choose so this is where what it does so this is the first using this object service instance supplier I am doing get if available internally it will call service discovery once you get the instances for each instance okay like H you can do an load balancing algorithm. If instances are not null so here if instances are present we have to pick one of the instance. So we can write custom algorithm here. So currently I'm picking only first instance get zero but you can write your custom algorithm. Okay. So this is the choose method which does this thing. Okay. So round robin you can uh debug the choose roundroin. Go to the roundrobin load balancer class check its choose. So it first does the same thing get if available which calls the service discovery you get the instances and for those instances you are doing a roundrobing algorithm performing in random it just called random method. Now if you write a custom logic in after you get the instances if you got zero instances you return empty response or throw exception. If you got the instances pick one instance based on your algorithm. Now once you have written this now let's say that for product service I want to use this algorithm how to do that we know right in the first in this application startup we have put load balancer client give name equals to product service and whatever the configuration is this okay in our application order service application and inside the config load balancer product config we can now tell that hey this is the load balancer use this the first one is we have to runtime during runtime right so we have to provide an object here and the service so you got it right so this is how internally the load balancing happens you can write your custom load balancer you want or by default is round robin you can change it to random to a particular service or to all the service. The major major major problems or difficulty comes into the global only global and perk config. We only have to understand the importance of service ID because these configs runs at runtime when you actually from your service when you are actually invoking product service or sales service at that time the particular ser uh config get invoked. Okay. So that is important and you can change the algorithm which you want. I have already told you you can uh know that if global and specific configs are present you make you have to make sure that uh duplicate uh for one product service or one service two algorithm is not uh created. So we have to also handle that. So once you understand this rest
