=== Load Balancer with RestTemplate (193s - 558s) ===

So let's start with the client side load balancing with rest template because if you understand the rest template then for either rest client f client web client whatever you are going to do the load balancing logic would be same it not going to differ. So in service discovery topic previous video we have seen that after we have set the service discovery the rest template we fetch the list of instances using discovery client object. We have already seen that right and then client is manually choosing the instances from the list and invoking the endpoint. See if you can recall from the previous video service uh discovery one. So I'm showing you an example of rest template. not faint line. Okay. So in the rest template if you remember we were first creating the object of rest template inside a configuration which we have autowired it. Okay. Now here if you see we are using an object of discovery client. With discovery client we are fetching the instances of this service product service from Ureka server. Hey Ureka server give me all the instances of this product servers. Once you get it and here if you see this is we were choosing like you can say that this is a very bad uh load balancing algorithm. We were always picking get zero but this is just an example that hey after you get all the instances we have to have a load balancing logic and we have to pick one instance and call it. Okay, use that host and port number. Okay, so if you can recall this one here we haven't used any load balancing capability now. Okay, so here we are fetching it. We are writing our capability and we are then invoking a particular server. So we can use a spring cloud load balancer which is a spring cloud load balancer is your clientside load balancer. Okay. So spring cloud load balancer there are more uh client side load balancer like Netflix reborn which is I think deprecated now it's deprecated. So spring cloud load balancer is something which is frequently used and stto uh service mesh that is also very frequently used. Okay. So we can use any of the client side load balancer which we want. So now here if you see if we have to use the uh spring cloud load balancer into the above this rest template what we can do the first thing first we have to add in dependency of the load balancer spring cloud load balancer cap uh dependency we have to add in our pom. Okay. Now the second thing is we have to annotate where we are creating an object of rest template we have to annotate with at the rate load balanced. Why? Because this annotation tells the framework that hey intercept the request intercept the request and call service discovery get an instance and apply load balancing algorithm. So there is something called load balancer interceptor. Load balancer interceptor. So this class will get invoked. Okay. So this is the purpose of this annotation. It tells the framework that add this interceptor. Okay. We will see that. So this is one thing is we have to annotate our rest template with this annotation. Another difference you will see that earlier we were using discovery discovery client right now you don't need discovery client itself because this interceptor internally will call service discovery fetch an instances do load balancing and call one server. Okay. So you don't manually need to do that. All you have to do that is just provide the name of the service which you have to invoke. Okay. So I have written into the application.properties that http product hyphen service. Now I am not using let's say 192.80.60.3 hey call 8082. I am not using the hardcoded host and port number right. I have just invoked that hey product service this is the name of the service I have given into the application like here for this order application I have given the name order I order hyphen service right similarly for the product service I have given that name so I'm using that name which service you are going to invoke okay so the same here this is the URL okay so this http colon product service and this is the URI relative path which we have to invoke. Now this will get resolved by our load balancer. Okay. So now here if you see lot of things become simpler for us. Okay. We just have added the dependency and just uh tell through this annotation that intercept intercept the request and use load balancer interceptor. Now here we don't have to do the calling of the service direct uh service discovery we don't have to put an algorithm for choosing one of the particular service all internally got handled but the question should comes to you now how what algorithm how we can change it that's we going to see it okay
