=== Per service-Id setting the Load Balancing Algorithm (1083s - 1498s) ===

so now your requirement is that hey we want to use random load balancer I don't want to use round robin we want to use random how we can override it. So very very simple. Okay, this is same like uh the configuration I am just creating an object of rest template and while creating a rest template object I have annotated with add the rate load balance so that my load balancer uh interceptor can catch it and here exactly same like uh no difference while invoking it in the application.properties properties no difference I have provided the base URL which is this here I'm using the service name now the difference which comes in that first in your application let's say this is my order application in the order service application we have to put load balancer client annotation okay in this load balancer client annotation we tell that hey for this service product service this is the configuration which we have to use okay so this is very very specific for the load balancer okay so now here if you see I have provided a load balancer product client config load balancer product client this is very very specific just see it red again load balancer client this client is for name is product service so I am writing this config very very specific for this product service very very specific for this product service okay so I have written this configuration and now here if you see I am creating reactor load balancer so I am creating from this hierarchy you know that all this rand round robin random these are the hierarchy so it returns the object of this one reactor load balancer okay So I am returning now random load balancer. I am returning now random load balancer. But slowly understand it what exactly happened. So first by first let's start it from here. This config this load balancer product client config is different from this normal config class. Here I have created this uh configuration class. Right? You already understand that when you start an application, when you start an application, what would happen is this bean will get created at the time of startup. Correct? This is different. This configuration is lazy. This configuration is different. Load balancer configuration is different. the configuration again I'm saying the configuration which is associated with load balancer client is different from the normal config class because normal config class like above where we are creating an object of rest template right like this get invokes at application startup only all the beans will get created but this load balancer client config right this load balancer config whatever you will define the config here for the load balancer invokes at runtime two. So whenever you are going to invoke this right http colon product service some relative path whenever you are trying to invoke this endpoint product service at that point of time this configuration will invoke also okay at that point of time it will decide what is the load balancing algorithm you are picking why I will tell you the reason for it also when we go for the global. Okay, but remember this, this is very important. This config differs from the normal config because this configuration load balancer configuration invokes at runtime two. Okay, so that is first part. The second part is now here if you see when I am creating a random load balancer this random load balancer constructor takes two parameter one is service instance list supplier another is service ID. Okay. So now here this is the this will return me an object of service instance list supplier this one. So what is the use of this service instance list supplier? This object service instance list supplier is actually the one which helps to invoke the service discovery. So using this object using this supplier object service instance list supplier using this object we invoke the service discovery. Okay. And for what uh what name what server we have to ask for instance is this one product service. So that's what it it gives us a lazy object means it's not call now okay whenever we call it whenever we required it then only its object will provide it to us. So it give us an object lazily that's what generally it does. So the first thing it does is it provides an object of the service instance list supplier. Using this we will invoke service discovery for which instance this instance product service. Now the second is this product hyphen service. Why we need this? I told you each load balancing algorithm. Here I am picking random load balancer is associated with a particular service ID or client name. So that's where so this random load balancer is now associated with this service ID. Only when you are invoking this product hyphen service then only random load balancer is used otherwise it is not used. Okay. So again very simple uh we have to first annotate it with in your application load balancer client annotation we will provide a name for which service which configuration has to look for. So product hyphen service go for this configuration. Okay then here we have defined that which load balancing algorithm has to be used. Okay, that's all. Okay, so this is only we need it. But now the question comes is
