=== What is LoadBalancer and its Type (0s - 160s) ===

Hey guys, Shandid welcome back to the channel and today in micros service topic we are going to cover load balancer. So let's start without wasting any time. So we all know what load balancer is. Generally it helps in distributing the traffic to multiple instances of a server, right? Which helps in preventing single server from being overloaded with huge traffic. This is very very basic definition of load balancer which we all know. But things got more interesting when we go into its type. So generally it's of two type. Serverside load balancer and client side load balancer. So in serverside load balancer what generally happen is it has centralized load balancer. Right? So here if you see this is your client. Let's say this is our spring boot app. This is our spring boot app which we have written. Now we are calling a dedicated you can say that uh server which do the role of load balancing. So it has a centralized load balancer. Okay. So our client do not contains any logic of load balancing. Okay. So it calls a dedicated load balancer server which does and forward the request to one of the service requested service. But in the client side load balancer what generally happen is load balancing capability present inside the client the caller itself. Okay. So here if you see this is what we are doing today and this is what we have done in the service discovery if you remember. So this is our spring boot application which we have developed let's say. So what it does it first invokes service discovery. Let's say it say that hey give me all the instances of service A. Now service discovery return the list of all the possible instances available for the service A. Now this client holds the logic of the load balancing. Either it could be a library or either it return its own logic but client has the logic. Client does the load balancing and pass the request to one of the server. Okay. So that's the difference between serverside load balancing and client side load balancing. And this is what we are going to cover client side load balancer. Serverside load balancer when we cover API gateway engine X right so that time we can cover it. Okay. So
