=== Globally setting the Load Balancing Algorithm for all service-id (1498s - 2081s) ===

what if for product service I want algorithm A for order - service I want something XY Z algo and for all I want algorithm B. Okay. What I'm trying to say is that what if you have different different requirement. Let's say for service one I want algo A. For service 2 I want algo B. But for all of the service 3, service 4, service 5, I want some default elgo. Default lo balancing algo same for all. How we can do that? Again very simple the same thing. Now we have one more annotation called load balancer clients not earlier it was client client now we have is clients so the client here has two parts one is default configuration okay and another is inside a value we can provide comma separated different load balancer client so now let's say that one I have provided similarly at the rate load balance balancer client for product service. This is the configuration. Similarly, comma separated you can put load balancer client name order service what is the configuration you want to put give it. Okay. So different different configuration we can give for different different service if required different algorithm because here I can use random algorithm for order service I can in this configuration I can use some different algorithm for rest of the service I want default right so what is the default configuration I want to use let's say this is the load balancer global config plus okay so this is the first place where we have to define that for Each service one what is the algo? Algo is generally defined in a configuration class. So for service one what is a configuration class? For service two what is a configuration class? And default what are the configuration. Okay. So this is the first thing. So now here if you see that I will tell you the first the global config this default one right? default one I will tell you. So now here if you see this is first part and in this global configuration what we want to do is you recall one part one is each for each product or each service ID like a product service order service no matter how many service you have in your application which you are dependent on a sales service like for each one for each one load balancer algorithm would be mapped what algorithm have to be created okay so now here if you see that now let's say that for product service I have already defined that go for this load balancer product client so this is the first first child client config will load it then the default one so it has an order so First all the childs if there are more child load balancer client that bean will get created. After that the default one will get created. Okay. So now let's say that for product service it goes to this particular load balancer product client config. Okay. There it's we have already seen that how we can attach a particular algorithm to a product service. But now let's say for these two I want common algorithm like a default or even if I have more XY Z service for all these three my service I need one common algorithm one common algorithm for this one so while defining while defining a new roundroin load balancer I told you that it's attached with the particular service ID Now this is dynamic right we have order service we have sales service we have XYZ service we can't hardcode it at this place we can't hardcode it right it's it is dynamic at runtime that is one of the reason if you remember I told you all the load balancer configuration loads at runtime like which service you are invoking okay now let's say that you are invoking order - service at runtime. So at runtime from the environment it will get a property name. So this is will give you the service ID dynamically. And now like similarly I can create an object of a roundroin load balancer like whatever the algorithm you want to pick I can create a roundroin load balancer algorithm and I can put a service ID. I don't have to hardcode it now. Okay. So I put a service ID and this is the same here service ID used which is used for service discovery that hey use this call the service discovery for this service ID. Okay. Now when you are trying to invoke sales service with this dynamic runtime it will get a context get this config invoke this. Now this service ID would be salesy service. Now this algorithm now also attached with this service ID also. So for each service ID it will have this bean. Okay. So this is how global configuration we can write. Okay. Now you can ask that hey why you have put at the rate conditional on missing beam. Remember that here if you see at top we have one global config. We have a global global config in which we are dynamically finding out a service ID. Okay. And then we are creating a round robin load balancer algo and attach that service ID with that and we have one product hyphen service also in that configuration we we hardcoded it service ID because it's specific for product service but there we are creating a random load balancer algo. So we have to we have to make sure that duplicate product service is not created. So at runtime now let's say you are trying to invoke http colon product service. Okay at this point of time now we have two configuration two load balancer configuration. One is global and one is specific for product. Okay. So I told you that the first priority is for the internal one the child one before it goes to the global. So first it will get invoked this configuration will get invoked and when this configuration will get invoked it will create a load balancer algorithm and tied with the product service. Now after that internal according to the ordering now global will get invoke. Now dynamically if you see that dynamically it will find out it's a product hyphen service and it will try to create a roundroin algo. So for one service two algo will get attached and you will get an exception runtime exception. So to avoid that runtime exception we have to add that and we have to tell that hey if already a load balancer algorithm is chosen for a particular product service ID don't go inside it that's all. Okay, this is required in the global because we have a specific configuration for the particular service and we don't want that in the global also its load balancer get created or get mapped. So we have to tell okay only in case of missing bean go inside it. If bean is already present for that product service don't go don't go inside it. Okay so product service already got run and we have already seen that for product service we are using random load balancer and we have hardcoded it. We know that it is specific for product but in the global we can't hardcode it right. So that's why we are using this environment and you already know that why it's uh load balancer configs are run at runtime. Maybe at runtime this is not much helpful because uh during application startup we know product hyphen service is present is this is the service but for global this is important because we can't hardcode it. So at runtime we need to know which service we are trying to invoke and for that service it creates a load balancer algorithm.
