=== Understand internal functionality (558s - 1083s) ===

so if you face any doubt with the rest template like hey you are not able to understand this. So I would say that like please go through this rest template first right and I even I have shown the in-depth of this rest template framework how the control flows whenever we do this one right get for object in the rest template what exactly happened I have already explained in depth so the thing is once you put this at the rate load balance annotation so in this framework I am just assuming that you have already seen the rest template video and you know this how internally it works. So in the rest template flow when when we used to call the execute method that's where the interception works and that's where first this will get invoked load balancer interceptor do java at this point of time. Okay. So before execution of this first this interceptor now get invoked. Now here if you see if you debug this interceptor code you will see this piece of code where it try to does this two thing. So first it does load balancer client factory get instance for this service ID. What it does it will pick the load balancing algorithm for you. It will pick the load balancing algorithm like a roundroin or random whatever. So it will pick one load balancing algorithm for you first. Okay. After that it calls load balancer dot choose request. So internally it calls service discovery. Pick one instance based on the above load balancing algorithm. So internally it calls service discovery. Get a list of instance and whatever the load balancer algorithm you have got using that it will pick one instance of it. Okay. So all this code logic is present inside this interceptor. Okay. So there are different types of algorithms present into load balancing. Like I have already covered into this HLD playlist. If you go into the HLD playlist, you will see I think around 18th video like we have discussed a lot of algorithm round robin, least connection, IP hash, least response time, random. So I am not going to cover what exactly the algorithm does that is already present into the HL playlist. But today our main purpose is to understand that how framework does it. Okay. So if you see this line again where it picks the load balancing algorithm. This is very very important. We have to understand it better because remember when you are about to code it I am pretty much sure you will face lot of challenge because of this service ID because of the service ID. So understand this service ID concept properly. This going to help you when you write it. Right. This is I from based on my experience I'm telling you lot of engineers get stuck this how it's working okay so we will look at this little bit better where this line choosing the load balancer for us it will choosing the load balancer right for us so one thing question comes to our mind is what is this service ID getting passed okay and what its purpose Why and what its purpose? So one thing is this service ID is nothing but a client ID or you can say that client name. So here in this case say like a product service is also known as service ID. Let's say order service. This is my application name right at you can say that ureka server we have used this application names. So these are known as service ID. Okay. So each why we are passing this client name or service ID to this load balancer remember that each load balancer algorithm is attached to a service ID. So now let's say that this is your application. Just understand that this is your application. Now you have a dependency on product. You have a dependency on sales. You have a dependency on some XY Z application. Okay. So I have given its name product service. I have given it a name sales - service. Similarly XY Z - service some something something. So these are the application name. Remember that load balancing algorithm is for attached to a specific service. So for this service I am using round robin. For this service I am attaching it with random. For this service I am attaching it with let's say weighted algorithm. So whatever the algorithm of a load balancer is attached to a particular service always. Okay. So this going to help us very this is the main concept actually we will see that when we will override it right this is where the challenge comes that hey how why this product service is important it is important because whatever the algorithm we are picking load balancing algorithm it's attached to one of the service it's not like I choose uh round robin now it's roundroin is for product service also sales service also this also no It's always get attached to one of the service. Okay. So we will see that more but at this point of only this thing keep in at the back of your mind that yes whatever the load balancing algorithm we are picking it is attached to one of the service. Okay. So each load balancing algorithm is attached to a service ID. Service ID is nothing but a client name like product service. By default, Spring Cloud load balancer picks round robin load balancer. So this is the default load balancer algorithm. We can change it for a specific service for all the service also. We will see that how. But this is the by default for all the service. Okay. No matter how many service you add for all the service round robin get attached. Round robin for product service, roundroin for sales service, roundroin for XY Z service. Okay. So for each service roundroin load balancer is the default algorithm is chosen. So if we are not going with default algorithm, if you don't want to go with roundroin, then we need to define for which client or service ID which algorithm we need. Again it's just a different way of saying that each algorithm load balancing algorithm is attached to a particular service ID. So we have to tell okay you don't want to go with roundroin what algorithm you want to choose but for which service we have to tell the both a spring cloud load balancer supports only two algorithm roundroin and random okay so here this is the class hierarchy if you see that this is one of the load balancer round robin load balancer and this is the another random load balancer we can if you need more or different you can create a child class you write a custom load balancer and use it. We will see that how we can do that. Okay. So but by default only two algorithms are present into the spring cloud load balancer round robin and random. If you want different algorithm like weighted lease connection then we need to write either custom or we need to use different uh library maybe stto with sidecar it has wide variety of algorithms present inside it sidecar okay
