=== Internal working of FeignClient (962s - 1941s) ===

comes to your mind is how how this declarative thing work. So here if you see the very basic question which I'm saying which comes to your mind is that hey Shange we have created an interface product client annotated with faint client. That's okay. But still we haven't provided any implementation for this method. Okay. But in the order controller we are doing auto wiring. If you see this we are doing auto wiring right? Auto wired. How come? How come I am able to auto when you are doing auto wire means an object is present. Okay. So interface you can't create an object right. So somebody has provided its implementation and that implementation objects comes here but how I haven't provided its implementation. So who has provided it? The fing client framework how see this it's not easy but let me try to explain in a very simple method what happened in the behind. So it will make you things clear and you don't have to muck this up that okay this this should be done like this only. So let's see the flow then it will give you a very intuitive like how to use this f client and how it's actually might be internally working. So now let's say that we have done till here like we have written only interface with f client not implementation we have autowiring it right. So when we have started the application right when we started the application what would happen since we have provided this annotation at the rate enable f clients it will scan for f clientline interface that's the first thing it will do it will scan all the interfaces which are annotated with f client okay now for each interface it will invoke this reflective fing class and in that There is a method called new instance. So for each interface it invoked this method which is present in reflective fing class. Okay. Now this is very important class because it does three things. The first thing which it does is create an object of method handler. Okay. So for each meth so now let's say that for each interface now in this interface interface one let's say it has two method method one method two so for each method it will run and it will create an object of method handler now what is method handler method handler object holds complete info that is parsed from a method and its annotation And these all info is needed to execute the HTTP requests. So what generally happen is now from each method it do a parsing okay it understand its annotations right and it will update all these fields like target URL. So target URL is nothing but a base URL plus relative path. So here if you see that in the your interface at the rate fank client we provided the URL right. So this is your base URL and your relative path is in the at the rate get mapping we were providing / product / id. So this is your relative path. This is your relative path. Okay. So this variable got filled up. HTTP method get put or post that is derived from annotation like add the get mapping. Add the post mapping. Similarly, header info. Header info is derived from add the rate request header if there is any. Similarly, HTTP client variable. So, by default, fang client is using HTTP URL connection. If you remember the rest template, it is also using HTTP URL connection. But if you want to use different let's say okay HTTP Apache HTTP client, we can configure it. Okay. But this is the default HTTP URL connection it uses is if you want to change we can change it. Okay. Then encoder. So encoder is like convert the request body from Java object to HTTP format like JSON. So consider this in the rest client and rest template we will call it serialization des serialization right. So similarly in the faint client it's like encoder decoder like Java object to JSON and decoder is like once the response coming so from let's say JSON to Java object okay so it has provided its own default implementation is there it uses uh Jackson but if you want to configure ourself we can also do that so it's a configurable okay so this all fields get filled up actually it is all present into method handler so from each meth method for each method this object is getting created. Okay. Similarly, we have error encoder. Error error decoder. Error decoder is like if you remember from the previous video rest client, we have something called exception handler. So here it is something called very similar error decoder. So if any exception comes 4xx or 5xx how to handle it. Okay. So it has it provide us a default implementation but if you want to configure it we can do our own implementation also we have to do I will show you the example also don't worry about that similarly logger and retry so we are calling an API if any connection timeout happen how many times we have to retry two times three times so it is also in our control it also provide default implementation and also it's a configurable we can provide our own implementation also so Here in the short if I have to summarize method handler is method handler is something which is derived from the method right like uh its annotation and it's uh you can say that signature right and all these fields get derived from that particular method and all these fields are very very important which is needed to execute the actual HTTP request. Okay. So for each for each method it creates a map like okay this is the method let's say this is the method right where it g yeah this is get product by id so this is the method this is the method handler okay similarly if you have two methods so in the map you have both the details okay so first thing is for each method method handler is created which is derived the info from parsing the method Okay. And these all info are important which is required to actually make an HTTP call and handle the response. Right? Everything all the info is present here. Now once you created this method handler and put it into the map what it does is it create an object of invocation handler. Very important. Right? So consider it as a bridge. Right? I will tell you like how it is act as a bridge. But the next step which it does is create an object of invocation handler and whatever the map we have created here right that is stored here inside this. Okay. So this also has this map method comma method handler. Okay. So the object what we have created at the first step that is stored here now. Okay. So that is the first thing we create an object of it and populated whatever we have uh derived in the step one. Here we have update this populate this object map method handler and this also has one method invoke. This invocation handler has one method invoke which act as a bridge which act as a bridge between proxy implementation and the method handler. Okay, don't worry about this. Now I will tell you how it acts as a bridge. But for now only remember this two things that invocation handler has this info like it has the map like for each method what is the method handler and it has one method called invoke which act as a bridge between the proxy implementation and the method handler. Now what is proxy implementation? So that's where the third step is. Okay. Once we complete this third step right you will the whole picture will get clear how it is how this act as a bridge how the flow total flow goes right that will all clear. Now the third step is what this new instance. So first in so first step easy it create a method handler by parsing the method. Second step also easy. It create an object of invocation handler and whatever the map we have created it will populate inside its object also. The third step is it uses a dynamic proxy to create a runtime implementation of our interface. So it created a dynamic proxy. If you remember dynamic proxy is used to create a runtime like it create a code for us at runtime. So I was so that question right we haven't provided the implementation but we are able to do the auto wiring means somebody is implementing it right that's where this third step it uses a dynamic proxy to create a runtime implementation so this is this is just a demo class nowhere in the spring cloud openf library you wouldn't find this class this is just my understanding that what dynamic proxy might be creating implementation for that. Okay. So there is no such class like fing product client proxy. It is just my understanding and demo of how dynamic proxy would have implemented our interface product client. So we have this interface right product client. How this dynamic proxy would have created what code it might have written. So that is just my understanding. If you go and look, you won't find this class. Okay. So, this is dynamically created by proxy. Okay. So, if you have to just understand what dynamic proxy, how it will generate the class, what that class going to look like. So, this is just a demo. So, let's say that it will create any name like this is just a demo name. It implements our interface. Okay. And here if you see it has handler. Now since it is implementing our interface, it has to provide a implementation for this method get product by id. So that's where we provide an implementation. Now here what it will do is it just call handler. What is the invocation handler? Right? It will just invocation handler dot invoke. Right? and pass this method. Okay, so we get the method, right? Get product by ID. So we get the method detail from here. Get product by ID. Okay, so it just invoke the handler. So now you will get to know that what generally happen is now let's say that in we are invoking from the controller class of order controller. Now let's say I am calling product client my interface right product client dot get product by id something let's say one now I am invoking this method now I'm trying to invoke this method now what would happen is this class will intercept it this is the class which dynamically has has been created. Okay. So now this is the implementation for that my interface method. Right? So this will intercept it. So control will come here. What it will do is it will fetch the method like we can find it like get product by ID. Right? We will get its method detail. We have already covered this in Java, right? How this reflection works. So it will take out the method object like we can easily take this out for each method. Now it is now from this method we can take out the meta data what is the return type what is the parameter right is this public or private etc etc so now this I can get all the information about my get product by id method and now I am calling this handler which is invocation handler so it will call this invoke method now if you remember I told you that this invoke method act as a bridge between the proxy implementation and the method handler. So now I got this from proxy implementation. What it will do is it provided us me the method right this method. So for it has this variable map method comma method handler. So from this method from this map it will take out the handler. Okay. for this method. What is the method handler once it got the handler? It call its invoke. Okay. So what it does is it act as a bridge the call which is coming from proxy implementation. From here I just got that method from here. This map I take out that what is the method handler for that particular method. And for that method handler I invoke the its invoke method. So method handler also has this invoke method. So method handler has all these fields plus also has invoke method. Now here if you see this method handler invoke method is actually creating the request object HTTP request and then ultimately executing it. It's actually making a HTTP call here. So this is the place where exact call will happen. Execute. Okay. So you got the flow and got the answer like what internally happened even we haven't provided the implementation we are able to autoirate properly because of this flow. Okay. how this invocation handler act as a bridge between these two. So if you go through this flow again you will get to know and you will find your answer that what internally happening behind this declarative. So we only told what to do but how internally this code is determining it is doing parsing from the annotation it determine what's the target URL header info client encoder decoder. So it if you haven't provided it it took the default if you provide it it will fill it. We will see that example how to provide all of this value also. Okay. And then how proxy implementation going to look like and how invocation handler act as a bridge. Okay. So this is just one example where
