=== FeignClient GET, PUT example (1941s - 2139s) ===

I'm trying to use as much annotation possible. So here the same I am creating an interface product line annotated with f client. provide any name to your f client like I just give any arbitrary name I provided product service URL either you can hardcode it or you can read it from application.properties properties. Now this is one method. Get product by ID. It's a get call. This is the relative path which I want to hit. And this ID is generally read from this path variable. Like this ID which I'm get, it's going to update it into this path variable. Similarly, I can write more at the putut mapping the same value like what is the relative path and the consumes application dot JSON means what is my request body content is it is JSON. So here I have provided path variable like this id whatever I will get it should be updated into this path variable plus there is a request param also like after that question mark send mail equals to true false okay so request param will get added after this header would get added I just added some uh custom header okay so at the request header this API also has a body So request body. Okay. So I have provided the body also. So in the product application in the product application which is running on 8082. So it has if you see this put mapping right they have one corresponding endpoint which I want to invoke. So it also has at the rate putut mapping right. So it also has like / product / updates / id. So that's what I wanted to hit. Okay. Now here if you see that one to one mapping is not mandatory. Okay. Spring boot will take care of like uh passing the values according to annotation. So here if you see my first is let's say path variable. Second is request param. Third is request header. Fourth is request body. Here ordering is different. First is path variable. Second is request body. And here it is last. Here it is second. But still it's okay. It will work fine because spring boot while creating invoking this right it will based on this annotation it will assign it will fill the values. Okay. So one to one mapping is not required. With the help of annotations our finline framework will get to know that the order. Okay. So very very very similar to how in controller we write a method, right? Similarly like this we just have to write like whatever is the endpoint we have to invoke. So now the next thing is like
