=== Encoder and Decoder in FeignClient (2139s - 2723s) ===

encoder decoder in the f client. So till now we haven't provided encoder decoder. Okay. Generally if you see that in the rest line it's generally serialization des serialization okay we can provide custom implementation and here if you see when the method handler object is created it has an field for encoder and decoder okay generally if you don't provide it the by default it will use and I told you it's a configurable we can provide our own implement mentation how do we want to encode how do we want to decode so that's where we will see that like how it's happening so what does encoder means converts a Java object into a request body okay because ultimately we have to send the let's say JSON so we can't send Java object so serialization should have happened say that so now here you can say that here in the Spain client we are calling it encoder where we are converting a Java object to respective request body let's say JSON similarly decoder once the response come we have to convert it to a Java object okay so that's what it generally called as decoder right convert the HTTP response body say it's coming in JSON we have to convert it to the Java object right if you remember in the rest line it's like serialization And in the d serialization we were doing manually we were reading the stream and converting it to an object right the same thing here also it does internally. So if you remember this method handler which I showed you here right where ultimately uh it create a request and invoke execute and decode it method handler. So where exactly this encoder decoder comes into the picture. So encoder if you go this where we are building the request right if you internally debug it okay you will find that it is doing encoder.enccode it calling this method okay and it pass the body. So internally this method it make use of encoder by default internally it uses Jackson and in the request template not rest template request template and in the request template body would be put as raw JSON right so now here if you see that this encoder dot encode this encoder is an interface this encoder is an interface So there is a default implementation available. Okay. I think you can double check. There is something called a spring encoder. I'm not sure. You can double check. So there is this encoder is an interface and there is a default implementation I think is spring encoder which provides an implementation which internally use JSON and parse this. Okay. it pars the body Java object and convert it to a raw JSON and put it into the request template body. Similarly, where the decode will happen like once you get the response. So this internally if you go to execute and decode internally this method make use of decoder. So you will find this code decoder dot decode. Okay. Similarly here decoder is an interface and it has like a spring decoder class which implement this and it again uses JSON. So there it read the byte stream and convert it to a java object like we used to do in rest client. Okay but it's all now abstracted to us. It just like we have to go and see what where exactly it happen. So we can provide our own implementation here like we can implement the encoder and provide our own implementation here custom implementation here. Similarly inside a decoder we can write our own class which implements it and write our own custom decoder. So that's what I am going to do. Now if you want to write our custom encoder decoder what we can do. So the first thing is I am creating an interface product line all exactly it is no change but remember uh see this here I am annotating this interface with fing client giving it an arbitrary name URL which is the base URL. Now this is the new like I am providing a configuration and I am writing new configuration product client config. So see this now in your application let's say this is our order application order application might have to communicate with product application product APIs let's say there is some other microser let's say sales APIs some other microser let's let's say user user APIs okay there could be different microservices this is let's say microser service one, micros service 2, micros service 3, different different microservices. Okay. So when I am talking with this product APIs, I want configuration specific to this only. When I talk with sales APIs, I want configuration specific for this. Maybe its encoder, its decoder for example, its timeout, read timeout, connection timeout is different than sales APIs, right? So we can easily do this like so here in the f client you can provide a configuration and the class. So this class now belongs to this fang client only. Okay. So this interface which is product client okay and here I have provided the configuration product client config. So all these APIs which you will provide under this interface this configuration would be applied. Similarly you can have different like user client or sales client different client interface and you can provide different configuration. So their configuration would be present for their APIs. Okay. So there is no impacting between each other. Okay. So that is one of the another advantage like it's so clean that uh we can manage the configuration between different clients easily. So this is let's say my one client product client sales client user client right I can easily manage their configuration separately from each other. Okay. So the first thing is mentioning the configuration for this product client product line config.class class and that's where in the created one class product client config annotated with at the rate configuration okay I'll come to this again so first thing is configuration we have to provide one config class for this product now here if you see I am writing my custom product encoder so I told you encoder is an interface we just have to implement our custom interface so that's what I did implements the encoder So once we implement this interface we have to provide the functionality of this method and here I'm just simply converting an object to JSON very simple method just for testing like demo. So I'm what I'm using an object mapper and converting it to a raw JSON string and inside the request template I'm putting this raw JSON. Okay, most similarly the default also doing the same thing. I don't have to provide a custom implementation for this because default also almost does the same thing. The spring encoder also does the mostly same thing. But just for testing, if you have some different logic, you can add here. Similarly, decoder I have provided my decoder. Product line decoder implements this decoder. Now I have to provide this implementation and here I am reading the stream and from this stream I'm converting it to this type whatever the type which is coming. Okay. So generally this type is like that return type of the method. Okay. Now we just have to create an object of this. Right. So in the configuration I have just created a bean for this two encoder and decoder. Okay. So now what would happen is in our code whenever this encoder object is required right so this would be used and decoder this would be used client decoder okay and similarly on the same path itself all the custom different custom implementation which we have to do is right we will do that right like
