=== What is FeignClient (36s - 206s) ===

further time so fang is a declarative remember this word it's a declarative HTTP client developed by Netflix declarative means we tell what to do not how to do like so we are only telling we want to communicate with X service let's say we told but how internally we have framework for it so this is you can say that it has a framework which handles how it will communicate we only tell that yes our service order service has to communicate with let's say product service that's all okay and how this framework will handle it we will see that so in spring boot fain capability is available via spring cloud open fain library. Okay. So the capability which is developed by Netflix in this fing framework is available in spring cloud library in open fing library. Okay. So now here one of the thing is we need to know what is a spring cloud like so a spring cloud considered as a set of tools and libraries which helps to build distributed microservices. So you know that when we develop a distributed microservices lot of topics or lot of features you can say that required like service discovery uh client side load balancing circuit breaker API gateway distributed tracing centralized configuration. So so many things comes into the picture when we talk about distributed micros service. Okay. So spring cloud has seamless provides seamless integration between all these functionality. Okay. So that's why in future one of the reason I told right in future if we have to use microser communication functionality we will make use of open f library. Why? because one thing is it is a part of a spring cloud and it has seamless integration with all of this features service discovery feature load balancing feature API gateway you want. So we have libraries for each one of it and it all have very closely integrate integrated with each other right so we'll see that how it works in the future but today let's keep focus on open pane library so that's the first thing we have to do in the pom.xml example we
