=== Retryer in FeignClient (3048s - 3458s) ===

called retryer in f client. So here if you see this is what method handler code is right method handler. So here if you see any like here it is ultimately it's do execute and decode. Now let's say any connection timeout happen. So some it will catch it. Okay. And then it will check hey continue or propagate. Continue means if there is a retry attempt left go and hit it one more time. Try executing it one more time. Else propagate it. Let it catch by error decoder. Okay. So what's the default behavior? Till now we haven't defined any retryer. So what's the default behavior for the retryer? So retry only happen first thing is let's before goes to the default uh we need to understand that retry only happen when there is connection timeout and network related exception that IO exception or something so it should be a retriable exception not like anything if it is 4xx or 5xs at the start itself it will directly go to error decoder itself only if it is retrial exceptions S it will try to retry. It will try to make an another attempt. If all the attempt finish then error decoder ultimately will get invoked to handle the exception. Okay. So here if you see the default which it's closed that retry clone. So here the default one is it is the default which implements the retryer. It has this configuration. Maximum attemp is five. Five times it will do attemp 100 millisecond. This 100 is the initial weight time call. So let's say you first time you are making an immediate attempt. First time I'm calling a product API. Product API immediate attempt. Let's say connection timeout happen. So try two will happen only after 100 seconds like so wait okay now let's say that after 100 second try to happen that also connection timeout happen now try three will wait for 200 millisecond so double so it will double each time so the wait time get double each time okay so try four 400 try 5 800 okay and the max cap is currently it's put the max is 1 second so Maximum only is 1 second it can wait not more than that after 1 second if it is let's say try six it will not like okay 1 1600 millcond no maximum is 1 second now after 1 second it will make try six try 7 try 8 how many whatever the attempt left so this is the maximum wait time this is the you can say that start initial weight time and it doubled with each retry Okay. So this is the default implementation and there is something called retryer dot never retry this is also present if you don't want to retry itself not even default five times itself because default behavior is it will retry five uh not retry maximum attempt is four. So one is actual call and then you can say that four is the retry. So total five attempts. So if you only want one attempt itself right you can use never retry retry dot never retry. So in the configuration I am returning a bean of retry but called it never retry. So we already have uh uh present in the retry class itself. So like it has the default right. Similarly it has uh never retry where it has only one attempt. Okay, the actual immediate attempt only no retries. But if you want custom implementation, okay, that we can do also the same thing. Custom implementation is like we will make use of configuration very specific to our interface product line. Now use case one, I only want to customize the attempt initial time or the maximum period time. That's all. rest the logic rest the logic I can make use of the default one what is the rest of the logic like hey if your attempt is increase the max attempt then you don't have to go and retry you have to throw exception like all this thing so I don't want to do all those logic all I want to do is configure this values then what I do is I can write my custom retryer extend the default. Okay, extend the default and in the constructor I pass the super this different values whatever I want. Okay, and all the method which it has make use of default only. But if you want full control then you write your custom entry and implement the retry itself interface itself. So now you have to implement the method also. So this is dot default is not an interface. It's a class. So I'm extending it. Okay. So this continue or propagate actually it would be already present into the default. All I am providing is different value of the configuration. But if you implement this interface you have to provide the implementation for this method also. So now you have to like full control what is the atam max atam. In this method you have to like I'm just using as a dummy like uh if attemp is greater than equals to max attempt means all the attempts are finished then you have to throw exception otherwise do attemp plus then you have to sleep it. So this is I have hardcoded sleep for 100 millisecond okay but generally the logic is there like double every time in the default. So like if you want a complete logic you can complete uh you can say that control over the implementation you can do this otherwise you if you want a control over this values you can use default okay once this is done and here if you see in the configuration in the bean I'm just returning creating my retry object and returning the bean of this
