=== ErrorDecoder in FeignClient (2723s - 3048s) ===

error decoder in fain client in rest client you Remember it's called as exception handling. When 4xx happen, when 5xx happen, how to handle the exception. So it is used to handle non2x status code like 4xs, 5xs. So here if you see this is the method handler code. Okay. So here it is running execute and decode. Right? So internally once it get the response once it get the response it analyze the response and if there is an error if it is not to access what it will do is it will call error decoder dot decode okay error decoder dot decode. So again error decoder you can say that it's an interface and it has a decode method. Okay. So there is an implementation present at it. So error decoder class. So here if you see error decoder I think it's an interface. You can double check it. It's an interface and decode has a default implementation present. We can check that error decoder. error decoder. It's an interface. So it's an interface and it has provided us the decode method. Okay. So it has uh it has a default implementation for this error decoder. So default implementation it is now implementing it. Okay. So this is Error decoder dot default actually. Okay, error decoder dot default. Okay, so default is the one which implementing this error decoder class and provides an implementation of this method. So here if you see what it is doing is simply is that it is returning the fain exception. Okay. So in the fain exception it include status code response body and header. So generally this is how your exception going to look like. If any exception happen right it's going to look like this bad request fain exception bad request 400 and your body if there is any error that will also get included. Okay. But here if you see that is not very much clear and you get a requirement that hey I need to handle it differently. I don't want this kind of exception to be thrown. Okay. So what you can do right the same thing error decoder right we can write our own implementation. We can write our own implementation. That's what I'm going to do. The first thing is first whatever the interface we have created this is the endpoint which we have to invoke and for this product client I have annotated this interface with the f client annotation and I have provided its configuration very very specific for this product product line client configuration. Now I am writing my error decoder and implements the interface error decoder. Now I have to implement the method decode method. Now whatever the logic which you want. So I am very very simple I am doing is like if a status code is 4xx throw this custom exception. If a status code is 5xs throw this custom exception. I am writing this custom exception. Right? Uh we have seen this in rest client itself. We can write our own exception and we have already seen in Java tutorials also. Now how we can write our own exception. So this is just a very simple right we can add a status code message proper whatever we wanted it. So this is just a very very basic like what exception we want to throw. Okay. And uh if it is not 4xs if it is not 5xs and if you want to handle the default the again I am creating a default. I told you right here it is error decoder dot default class which is implementing it. So ultimately I will call this it will handle it. Okay, if I am not able to handle it, ultimately I'll pass it to the default decode. Hey, you handle it. Okay, and in this configuration I just have to return a object of mine error decoder which is the bean of error decoder. Okay. So now [Music] in code whenever this error decoder doc decode will get invoked it will invoke mine this class not the default one okay and here if you see now this is how the exception will be thrown bad request exception client error because I'm throwing this this is just an example we can have it a better way like you want it this is just an example like whatever your custom exception If you want you can throw it like way. Another thing we have in something
