=== Adding Dependency(OpenFeign) in pom.xml (206s - 392s) ===

have to add the library. So we added the library of spring framework cloud of open fin. Now here one thing you notice that I haven't provided the version. I haven't provided the version. Why? But I have added this dependency management. Okay. So in dependency management I have provided a spring cloud dependency and give this version but here I haven't provided the version the reason being that the same thing I'm coming back again in future we might have to code for service discovery so we have to add its library we have to code for load balancing we want this feature we have to add its library so we are going to add multiple libraries of spring cloud Right? And so let's say I have one library for open fin. I have another library for uh service discovery. I have another library for load balancer. Okay. So all its versions all its version should be compatible with each other. So either you write version here and in future if you add more spring cloud dependency let's say service discovery so its version should be compatible with whatever the version you are using for the open fane okay so if in future you are adding load balancer so its version should be compatible with the service discovery whatever the version you are using and the version with the open fane right so all should be compatible the spring cloud version should be compatible with each other. So I don't want to do this, right? I don't want to handle all this manually versions. That's where the dependency management comes into the picture. Okay, so a spring cloud dependency we can use. Okay, it's not like a mandatory. You can use it or if you want you can put a latest version here, right? But in future you have to make sure that if you are also using service discovery and you are using its version so you need to make sure that both these version are compatible to each other. But if you don't want all this headache and you don't want to manage it manually we can leave up to spring boot itself like we are using spring cloud dependency. Now Maven will take care that all the dependency it will bring in which are compatible right. So even if you are using service discovery we will not write version. If you're using load balancer we will not write its version. So proper version will be automatically added by Maven. Okay. With the help of this dependency management. Okay. So the first thing we have added is dependency in our pom.xml.
