=== FeignClient with Simple Code Example to get Complete overview first (392s - 962s) ===

Now this is our requirement. We have an order service which is running on port number 8081. And this auto service need to invoke the product service like we have seen in the previous rest client also which is running on localhost 8082. So now what how this communication will happen in fain client. So the first here if you see we are writing an interface. So I am writing in the order service I need to communicate with product service right. So I'm writing one interface and give it a name product client. And here if you see I have written one method right get product by id. What is the path variable? I give provided the path variable id and get mapping. So it's just like how we used to define in the controller. If you see that generally in controller we define any API right. Similarly like this I am defining here. So what exactly I'm doing here. So here if you see actually I am telling that which endpoint I have to communicate of the product service. So product service has this / product / id. So that's your get call. I want to make a get call get mapping get call of this API. Okay. And I you can give a method and this id is nothing but a path variable. So whatever the id it will come it will replaced here. Okay. So very very similar to what we generally define in the controller. Okay. And it's since it's an interface we don't have to implement it. So see this thing we are not writing any logic. We just told what to call or what to do but not how we just only told that yes we have to invoke this API / product/ ID okay and this ID is replaced by this path variable okay and how it has to be invoked we haven't provided any implementation okay and on the top of this interface is this is very important that we have annotated with at the rate fing client that this is considered this as a fing client because this spring uh fing framework frame uh fing client framework internally has to provide an implementation for this right okay because not for each normal interface whatever the method you will write automatically its implementation will happen No. So for this interface we have to annotate with fing client. We have to give any arbitrary name. You can give any arbitrary name. So I have just provided like this uh name of this fing client. Let's say product service. You can give any name. Okay. And the URL it's like the base URL. So this is considered as a base URL. Local host 8082. Right? Host and the port. Okay. So this is the URL and I am currently reading it from application.properties. So in the application.properties I have provided this link faint.client.prouct service. URL you can give anything. Okay you can give anything and here I have provided the host and the port. So this URL this base URL will get replaced here. Okay. So first thing first what we have done is we have created an interface annotated with faint line. Okay. And there we have provided the base URL and we have written a method right and provided like which exact API we have to invoke. Okay. So you can see that it has a direct mapping here with the product service. So product service has this API. So we want to invoke this. So that's where what we have provided here. Similarly, it's it is get mapping. So here also it is get mapping. Okay. The endpoint which we have to invoke. Okay. So this endpoint for this one get product endpoint is / product / id. So that's here. And this ID is replaced by this path variable. Okay. So this things will get more clear. But first thing is we have to create such interface. No implementation is required. Okay. Application.properties. We have already seen that this base URL either you can hardcode it or if you don't want to hardcode it, you can read it from application.properties like this. You can give any URL which you any path which you want it. It's not like you have to like follow this only fang.client client dot you can give anything whatever the uh name you want to give the third thing is controller now here if you see in the controller I am doing auto wiring of this product client I am doing an auto wiring of this product line client so product line I am doing auto wire okay and in this order API let's say I have to invoke the product API in this order a in this order method I have to invoke the product API so I will use this client product client dot I will call this method get product by ID and let's say whatever the ID you want to pass you can pass it or you can pass any value okay and that's all that's all so here if you see you will get a response so what is the response you expecting a response of a string. So here I am catching the response in a string only and I'm just printing response from product API call is whatever I will get here order call successful and last thing very small thing but very important is in your application in your order service application you just have to enable the f clients like at the rate enable f clients by default it's false so we once we write this annotation what happen is it will tell spring boot to scan for interfaces annotated with faint line. Okay, without this spring boot will not even go and scan this interfaces which are annotated with faint client. No. So we have to use this annotation and only after that you can say that f client is enabled in our code. Okay. And after that only our spring boot will start looking for this annotation. All the interfaces with this annotation. So four things we are doing. We are writing the interface. Don't worry if you uh haven't understood much about it currently for now. Just understand like what all things required to make a communication using faint client. First thing is we need to create one interface. That's all. No implementation. Second thing is application.properties properties not mandatory either you can hardcode the URL here or it's better if you use the application.properties properties to define the base URL so that it is easier to change in future. The third thing is like wherever whatever the service layer or wherever you want to invoke the product API so you have to auto it and just invoke the method and the response you will got and just use it like you how you wanted to use and the fourth is that you have to enable it in your spring application. Okay. Now if you start and invoke the API here if you see order call successful this one order call successful and it should print this system do.print len. So here if you see it is printing. So it is invoking the endpoint product endpoint. It is invoking right fetch the product detail. So this one is returning this one. So it returned this it catch it here and then printed it. So here if you see how easy it is to make a microser communication I haven't written anything like uh dot even let's say even in the rest client rest client is also easy right fluent API like but here I have to tell I have to tell like how to communicate but here if itself I haven't done any implementation I I haven't done any any implementation. All I have done is which API I have to talk to. Okay. So one question definitely
