=== RequestTime and ConnectionTime configuration per Client (3458s - 3695s) ===

one okay and also Last but not the least during start and every time we are saying that whenever we are creating an interface we are annotating it with faint client and giving it a arbitrary name like say product hyphen service where this actual name is helpful to us. So this is one like you can say that it will come into an handy during configuration in application.properties. So here if you see if I want to set a request and connection time out only for product service faint client only for this only for this faint client. How I would set this for this faint client with the help of this name because I have gi client right and this f client is there in the product client. So I am providing this configuration in the application.properties. Hey fane do.client dotconfig dot the name of the f client connect timeout is this. Similarly read timeout this. So now this connection timeout and read timeout is very very specific for this fain client product service f client. this if you have multiple let's say uh sales client user client multiple clients you can have different different different connection timeout read timeout for them I can have let's say user hyphen service I can give different timeout for them okay I have like order service I can provide different timeout for them okay so this is one of the advantage here also for each different client wise I can very easily configure the timeouts. Okay. But let's say you have a requirement that hey same timeout I want to apply for all. Okay. Then you just use default. When you use default it ultimately applies to all like all fan clients all the fan clients. Uh this will get applied. This timeout, connection timeout and read timeout will get applied if you use default. If you want to use very specific for your F client like only for product service fine only for this use a specific name. Okay. And ultimately now at this point of time you should be able to know that these configuration values connection time out read timeout ultimately all this somewhere will get set into this this all somewhere there might be some variables which get filled up using this configurations. Okay. because there are other variables fields also that's why I put etc. So there could be some other field which is like connection time out read timeout what is the values it might reading from the application.properties properties. So, but ultimately very important here is method handler. It has all the variables fields which is important to make a connection and also it has a method which actually does all the things create a request execute handle everything. Okay. So I have explained you all the flow and I hope if you go it one more time or you try to implement it by your hand the things will get clear the flow will get clear to you that how these things are working. Okay. So if you have any doubt let me know in the comment section we can discuss further. Thank you guys. Bye.
