=== Sliding Log Rate Limiter (665s - 957s) ===

sliding log also again very simple but with a uh very familiar data structures which we use sliding window. Right. So it is very very similar to that one. For each accepted request it store the exact timestamp for each request comes in. It first check how many request happen in x seconds window size. So there is a window slide slider window you can say that we put that okay 10 seconds 20 seconds whatever so that would be its size okay if number of requests reach the limit it will reject the request we will see that with an example so here if you see window size I have put 10 second so this is my uh the slider size so my slider size is 10 second and in this slider size 10 and maximum limit is five. Maximum five requests I should accept it not more than that. Now for each accepted request it stored the exact time stamp. Now let's say that first request is coming at this point. So uh let's say time is started with 1000 0 0. So this is 1000 02 2 seconds. First request is came window slider window is still this only. Okay. Then second request comes at this 10.00.05. So it is logging the time stamp. Third request comes at this 10.00007 accepted because limit is five and only three is there. And then fourth request come at 10009 9th second. Okay. All four are accepted. Now let's say that the time reach till here. Okay. So our window size is 10. So it has to slide. So now window slides to 10 seconds. Okay. So now this is our current window. Now current window is let's say we are assuming that time period is in second. So it is moving second by second. So earlier window was started from 10 0. Now it's 1000 01 to 11. So this is my window size now. So it will only consider request within this window. So in this window till now how many requests are there? 1 2 3 4 till 9 it cames right now let's say at 11 another request is coming will it be able to accept it? So currently in this window only four limit is five. So yes it will accept it. Okay. Now let's say that now window moves again. Now let's say that time reach till here. So window has to slide. So window now slides to this 100 02 to 12 10 0 12. Now this is my window. Now I will check if a request is coming new request is coming. Does this window has how many requests? 1 2 3 4 5 already five is there which is already reached our limit in the window. Now you are trying to accept a new request which is in a window. So it will reject it. Okay. So very simple right? It just slides and it just keep track of the accepted request time stamp. Now here if you see that one you can say that one of the disadvantage of this also that uh one thing is you already know that it has to manage the time. Okay which is you require a memory for that right? more requests means you have to store their time stamp. Another problem is that now let's say that window slides again. Window time reach till here. Okay. So window has to slide. So it slide 1 second again. So now our time is this 03 to 13. Now here if you see that any time stamp of a request which we recorded which is now you can say that out of the window it has to be clean up right. So that is your extra task which you have to do because you only need to consider the time stamp which are present inside a window. All the uh time stamp which are beyond the beyond or before the window it has to be cleaned up. So that is disadvantage extra overhead of cleanup and you need more memory to store the time frame. Okay. So very very sliding window kind of uh solution which is just like based on time stamp.
