=== what is Fault Tolerance (13s - 268s) ===

that what is fall tolerant microser we mean to say that a service which continues to work even when downstream system fails okay so instead of crashing or cascading failure it should handle the failure gracefully. So what in short you have a system build up with multiple microservices even if some of the microservices are down and your microservices are depend on them you should not crash you should handle the failure gracefully okay then we can say that it's a fault tolerant microser okay why it is required you will get more clarity with this uh example like why it is required. So see as in microservices different services communicate over the network. We all know this and it's possible that one service unavailability could bring down the whole system. See this example consider that this system is not fault tolerant. How a one service can bring down the whole system? In a normal scenario let's say there could be multiple microservices which I'm calling as a client. Right? So let's say some other client or microservices is calling order component. Order is calling product. Products give the response and order in return gives the response to the client. This is a normal flow. Now let's say a buggy code has been introduced in the product and the product service becomes too slow. This products become too slow. Each API is now taking let's say 60 seconds, right? 60 seconds is too much. In distributed system, right? Say product service become too slow and taking 60 seconds to respond. If proper fall tolerant is not applied, then a call from order service will hang for 60 seconds. Now the order service which is calling the product service, right? It has to wait for 60 seconds. What if there is a sudden burst of request coming from client then all the request will wait for 60 second. Right? Just see this example now a sudden burst coming from a micros service to a order component order in return calling the product and product is currently going too slow. So all the threads are now waiting. Okay. All the threads are now waiting. Now what eventually will happen is service will run out of thread and start rejecting the request order. You know that there is a concept of thread pool. We have already covered that in depth. So ultimately when all the threads are waiting the thread pool ultimately will get finished. All threads will get finished and there you will reach a point when you will start declining the request and this becomes a casket failure to all your client and microservices also. And also one more thing is even the product component will not get a normal situation because the you can say that the situation of a product service will keep on detering because more and more load is coming to the product. So even though issue is at product the failure got cascaded to order and maybe because of order has stopped even order can get slow order component can get slow or if its thread is all done it is start rejecting the request. This failure can cascade to other components also. So that is known as cascading failure. And now you can see that how a one service can bring down the whole component whole system. So that's why we need fall tolerant that's why we need to build a fall tolerant microser. So if you are building a order it need to be fall tolerant that even if product goes down or product goes slow I should not like its failure should not get cascaded to me and I should not get crashed too. Okay. So here comes our resilience 4j
