=== Sliding Window Counter Rate Limiter (957s - 1898s) ===

Now we have our third is sliding window counter. Okay. So it has two flavors. Both flavors are simple. So first flavor is sliding window counter with sub windows. So understand that is that main window is divided into equal size sub windows. Keep track of the number of requests in each sub window. To decide if requests need to be rejected or not, it considered only the active sub windows. Main window slides over time. Don't worry about this. Now we will understand this uh four lines with an example and it will get uh clearly. So one thing is we have something called main window. So let's say window size is 10 second which ultimately going to slide. Okay. So we have 10 second window. Then we have sub window of 2 seconds. So this is our main window. This yellow one yellow bucket is our main window of 10 second. Okay. Then we have sub windows of 22 2 seconds. So means this main window is divided into 2 to seconds. Sub windows 0 to2 2 to 4 4 to 6 6 to 8 and 8 to 10. These are sub windows. Okay. And limit is five. in a particular window in a particular window max is five requests we can accept. Okay. Now what it will do let's see that how it so till now it is clear right one we have main window another is the main window is subdivided into sub windows. Now for any new request RQ let's say multiple requests are coming. So request comes at here limit is five it is one limit is five only two limit is five only three limit is five only four so till now it accept now let's say that a new request is coming at this 9 second so it will sum up the request in all active sub windows all active sub windows so here the ultimately window size is main window size is 10 seconds so currently we are at here at this 9. So its sub window is this one. This is one sub window 8 to 10. So it has to count how many number of requests comes into this window plus this window because it has to sum up the sub windows of 10 seconds because main window is 10 seconds. Okay. So it has to sum this up. So ultimately you can say that it all sub window task is to manage how many requests coming in their window sub window. Okay. So ultimately all the sub windows which are present into the main window it will just sum it up. Okay. So here at the 9th second so what are the sub windows? This one 0 to 2 to 4 4 to 6 to 8 and 8 to 10. So total 0 to 10 seconds. So this is your main window. Inside this main window, these are the five sub windows. Okay. Each sub window is maintaining how many request comes in their window. Sub windows. Okay. So we just sum it up. In 0 to 2 second sub window only one request comes. So it has maintaining that 2 to 4 only one request came. It is maintaining that. 4 to 6 only one request came. 6 to 8 only one and in 8 to 10 currently zero. So how many requests till now? Four and the limit is five. So request is allowed at 9. Okay, it will get more clear. We say that now let's say time has reached till this point. Time has reached till this point. Now window has to move. The main window has to move. So how much it will move now? Will it move by 1 1 second? No, it will here in this it will move by window size 2 seconds. So 2 second it will move. Okay. So now you see that where the sub window also comes into the so sub window has two part. One is maintain the count of requests within that window. particular window also is that the main window slides or you can say that jump according to sub window size. So sub window is 2 second. So when the time reach till this cross this main window size. So main window is 10 second. Right? Now time reach till here. So it has to move. So how much it will move? It will move by one window size. So now our size is this 2 to 12. Earlier it was 0 to 10. Now it is 2 to 12. Okay. So here sub windows would be now this one. These are the active sub windows. 2 to 4 1. 4 to 6 is the second. 6 to 8 is your third. 8 to 10 is your fourth. 10 to 12 is your fifth. So these are the five sub windows of 22 to seconds. Okay. And these are the active. This one is not active now because this is now before the or you can say that the expired sub window. Okay. So now when at 11 request is coming so it has to consider all the active sub window. So this active one of the sub window is 10 to 12 10 to 12. So 2 to 4 4 to 6 6 to8 8 to 10 10 to 12. So all the sub windows present into this main sub window main window it will only consider that and each sub window maintain how many requests comes into that period. Okay. So they will provide that and ultimately it take outs the count and it will don't consider the expired sub window. Okay. So simple this one. So what are the disadvantage? First is more complex than fixed window logic like you have to maintain sub windows and for each sub windows you have to maintain the count of request. Okay. And when the window slides it has to jump according to the sub windows. So that is one thing. Second thing is it it also required more memory because you have to maintain a sub window kind of information. So another flavor of this is which is little bit simple is sliding window counter with weighted window. Okay. So this is actually a combination of fixed window plus sliding lock concept. So in fixed window what we have is let's say fixed window is of 10 second window is of 10 second. So we have a fixed 0 to 10, 10 to 20, 20 to 30 like this we have fixed windows. Okay. Like with this is yellow green. So these are fixed windows and sliding log. So inside this there we will have a slider window also of a similar size 10 seconds. So 10 second 10 second we have a window right slider window is also 10 second. So this slider window can slide and when it slide some part of it might be into the previous window or another part would be into the current window. You can say that. So here if you see that the window one has 0 to 10 second and another window window two window one. Window one is 0 to 10 window 2 is 10 to 20. And this slider window has 80% currently into window one and 20% into window two. So it is possible. Okay. So here we have given a weight. Now it simplifies our previous uh where we are doing with sliding window with sub windows right it simplifies some task for us that we don't have to maintain the sub windows. We don't have to maintain the sub windows like fixed window we maintain that okay in this window 0 to 10 0 to 10 how many requests comes let's say five let's say four whatever so it just maintain a total request not sub window type okay so see this example let's say our limit is five okay in a in a particular slide window maximum five request we can entertain Okay. So currently our time is 0 to 10. Our current time is 0 to 10. Okay. So now let's say that our window slider window is also currently here 0 to 10 all 100%. Slider window is in the fixed window one. Okay. Now request is coming at fifth. All 100% inside this only then 6 7 8 9. So 1 2 3 4 5 five request comes totally it is within a limit of five of a slider window. Okay. So all are accepted. Okay. So total request count in a fixed window is five currently because see here in 0 to 10 it just maintain how many requests come. So total five total five request accepted. Now you will cl get clarified like how it works. Now let's say time reached till this point. Okay. Means time reached into the second window. Now window two. So this slider has to move internally. So now slider has moved till 1 to now the window is slider window is 1 to 11. Earlier it was 0 to 10. Now it moved by 1 second 1 to 11. So if you see that the slider 90% is in window one and currently 10% is in window two. So it need to see how many traffic or how many requests are accepted within this window slider window. So now just see that it very very basic mathematics only. So it just find total request. Total request equals to current fixed window request count plus. So means whatever in the current window. This is the current window, right? This is the current window. How many total requests are present into that? How many total requests we have accepted currently? Zero plus because see here we have just moved right 90%. So how many percentage currently we have here is 90%. Uh 90% of total request which are entertained into this window one 0 to 10. So total five because we are only 90% our window slider window is into the window one fixed window one right. So only whatever the total request we have we only consider this 90%. Okay. So let's say it comes out to be a 90% of five is 4.5. So let's say if we just do seal round off so it would be considered as a five only. So five is our limit for a slider window. So we don't allow a request. So we don't allow request here. No simple. Now you will see that uh disadvantage also plus with another example here also. Now the request reach till here. Okay. Currently slider window at 0 to 11. Right? 0 to 11. Now time reach till here between 11 to 12. So means slider has to move. So now let's say slider has moved. Now it become 2 to 12. This is my slider window now. So how much it is in 80%. So 80% is in window one and 20% now is in window 2. So how many total request now let's say any new request is coming should I accept it or reject it? It has to do first calculate that how many total requests it has present into this slider window. So current request count okay uh you can say that the current window current window what is the request count? So currently in 10 to 12 window 2 10 to 12 zero request plus 80% off. So currently 80% of our window slider window is into the window one right. So 80% of what are the total number of request was five. So it just said 80% of five which is four. So four is less than five because five is our limit of a window slider window. So it will accept it. It will accept it. But now you see that this is the disadvantage itself. Okay. But because now in this slider 2 to 12 how many requests came? 1 2 3 4 5 6. It become more than five. Why? Because it do not maintain sub windows. It just compute total request in a fixed window size. So what if all the requests present into here at end of the fixed window. So what happen is our slider will keep on moving and when the slider keep on moving its percentage present into the fixed window keep on reducing and when this number you are keep on uh reducing then only this ultimately will get increased. So currently here if you see that there is a chance like 80%. When you compute for this it gives you four. It is not accurate info. So there is a chance that you might entertain more requests than the limit. Okay. So 80% of uh total requests. So it accepted 80% of total request is four. So it assume that these requests are spread throughout the window which is actually not the case. What if all the requests are end of this and if you are doing 80% then it might give you four but that's not the true. Okay. So this is one of the disadvantage of the weighted window. I I hope it is uh clear with this diagram like how the window slides uh within a fixed windows.
