=== Fixed Window Counter Rate Limiter (470s - 665s) ===

So fixed window counter let's see the first fixed window counter. It is very very simple. It counts how many request happens in fixed window. If the count cross the limit then reject the request. For example, let's say this is the time period. I am currently putting into seconds. Uh actually in coding it could be in nanconds. Okay. But for simplicity, for understanding purpose, let's consider that this is a time period that every request can come at seconds 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 like this. Now we have put a limit five that at in a particular fixed window if only five requests are allowed. If more than five comes the rejected. Okay. So limit is five and window fixed window size I have given 10 seconds. So now here if you see this is window one. This is window one 0 to 10. This is window two 10 to 20. Okay. Similarly window 3 would be 20 to 30 like this. Now in each window maximum count maximum request allowed is only five. So now let's say one request is comes at 1 second then here then here then here then here total five requests. So all five are allowed because limit is five for this window and currently it's within a limit. Now here if you see in window two 1 2 3 4 5. So these fives are allowed because limit is five. as soon as the sixth request comes. So in this window 10 to 22nd only five are requests but this sixth is not allowed. It is crossing the limit. So that's why it is rejected. Okay. If any more requests will come that is also rejected because in this fixed window already five request has come. Now in the next window again new request can come till it don't reach its limit. limit is five. Very simple, right? But there is a disadvantage. Disadvantage is that what if this is window one, this is window two. What if all the five requests comes at the last of this window one and all the requests in the next window comes at the start of its window. Now here if you see in 1 second 10 request has come. Okay. So that is possible. So if traffic comes at edge then there is a chance of sudden spike. Okay. So there this is one of the disadvantage in uh you can say that fixed window counter because it it's it's a window fixed window and you are just counting like okay this many requests are allowed now the request can comes spread across the window or it can come like this but if it comes like this then if you see in 1 second 10 request your system is able to accept which it might not be able to handle it. Okay. Then there is something called
