=== Implementation in Springboot (2156s - 2944s) ===

So yeah implementation is spring boot. So first thing first we need resilience 4j dependency. So I have added this dependency this one any stable version you can pick. Right. So this is the dependency I have added in my pom.xml. Now rate limiter is just a mechanism inside uh resilience 4j right. So rate limiting framework will also comes inside that also all the classes will come with this resilience 4j itself. Now here if you see first thing is as usual no change your controller. So controller is now accepting like any API which you hit just see that I have created a service order service. Okay, this is my order service. So controller is invoking an endpoint here right invoke product API. So it is just invoking invoke product API and inside this method I am actually doing invoking the endpoint of a product component. Okay. So here we have order component. It is trying to invoke a product component. Okay. So this is the controller and here in this I'm just invoking a service and order service and there this method nothing much. Second is I am using a faint client right we have already covered this in depth. So I think by this itself you can collect what is happening. So I have given one interface for the product line. Get product by ID. Okay. So this is my name. I am using service discovery. This all thing we have covered already in this playlist. So it is pretty clear that uh we are using we we can use any client f client rest template rest client which we will be used to communicate between order and product component. Okay. So this is also nothing much we have already seen that. Now here if you see in the order service the method which we have written which is like ultimately invoking this interface ping client interface right get product by ID. This is as usual we are invoking but only this red bucket this is the something which is deferred. So here I have annotated this method with add the rate limiter annotation. Just give it a name any name to this rate limiter. Let's say I have given a product rate limiter because I am invoking a product API. So I have given a name product rate limiter and the fallback method. So now let's say that multiple request comes and your rate limiter denied one of the requests. So this request which got denied how it handled? So there is a fallback method. So we need to provide so it will ultimately move to that fall back method. So what so here I have written that fallback method. So the method name is rate limited fallback. So rate limited fallback inside that you can throw exception or like how you wanted the exception you can handle it here. either you can simply throw the exception here or like you wanted to handle it you can handle it according to your business logic. So only thing which we required is after dependency whichever the method where you are actually invoking the end point. So this is the method where I am actually invoking the endpoint. You have already seen this in through fine how to invoke it. I am invoking product this but only thing is this is the first thing which we required for this annotation. We have to put the rate limiter annotation on top of that method. Give it any name to this rate limiter. Provide a fallback method. Okay. And this fallback method should have a signature similar to your this method original method where you have written the rate limiter. Return type should be same. The parameter it accept a string. So string it should have a string also. Only thing is apart from all the similarity apart the next additional parameter it should have is a throwable that's all. Apart from that all the parameter you should match with your original method because if it do not match the framework resilience framework will not be able to identify your fallback method and it ultimately moves to the default fallback method. So resilience uh has some called rate limiter class rate limiter class. In that they have something called default method default fallback method. So first it will try to look that hey exact signature fallback is present or not means return whatever the method you have written here method name that method name is present or not it signature is same or not return type should be same parameters string so it also has a string and additionally it can have just throwable okay so that is the first thing which we have to do very important like put a rate limiter annotation provide a fallback method and then in application doperties here if you see we have to provide this configuration so resilience 4j by default rate limiter uses token bucket. So it has three properties limit for period limit refresh period time duration. So means your bucket maximum number of token it has is two. Maximum number of token it can have is two. Okay. There is a refiller. There is a refiller. After every 10 second it will run and insert two token. After 10 second it will keep on adding two token. But the bucket size is also two. The same whatever the limit for period is the same. It is the same bucket size also. How many token after 10 second? Two only. Okay. So let's say that no traffic is come bucket has already two tokens. If after 10 second another two token it try to add it will overflow. So only two is the maximum capacity. If mode you will try to add it will overflow and it doesn't get added to bucket. Now let's say that two token were present. Three request came. So this request one accepted this token. Request two has used this token. Now request three 10 second is not yet over. So new token hasn't been added. So what request three will done? It will get rejected. Right? So we pro we can provide a timeout duration. Hey wait for 1 second before you get rejected. If after 1 second also there is no new token get added then you can get rejected. Okay. So this is the timeout period we can define that uh any request which are not able to find a token instead of instant rejection we can make it wait for at least 1 second if in case token might get present. Okay. So these all things we have to do. Now you might be uh thinking that hey Shange how this by putting this rate limiter we have put this rate limiter right annotation how this might have working internally it uses the concept of AOP which in the spring boot playlist itself I have discovered in depth very important AOP so it uses the AOP functionality only or you can say that the complete functionality is via AOP only. I won't go in depth of how AOP works because that where I have discussed in depth various point cuts expression right so everything you will get to know and you know that we have also discussed how we can write our own annotation right we can handle the complete rate limiter through AOP itself no special framework code so what happen is that this rate limiter like through AOP it intercept the request. What it does is it first do your rate limiting logic. Okay. So what by default it uses token based algorithm. Right. So first it will invoke the class which has token bucket implementation and after that from where if it is come is accepted then it actually proceed. you remember from AOP we call proceed. So ultimately invoke the endpoint. So here uh I will go to this output part again. Uh but first see that let's say that this will give you a remind AOP works. I'm not going in depth but if you remember from that AOP topic you let's say I want to write my you say that hey I want to write my own custom rate limiter. I don't want to use token bucket. I don't want to use whatever the default it is providing. I want to write my own rate limiter. So I told you that the rate limiter if you want different algorithm you have to handle it through AOP completely. Okay. So now let's say that first I have to define an annotation. So I have defined a custom rate limiter annotation. We have already seen into this spring boot playlist how we can define a custom annotation. The second part is in the rate AOP I have told you that we have to write an expect class right aspect class where we provide this point cuts. Okay. So now it is listening to this annotation and what it has to do once this annotation is uh called what it has to do it has to first do a rate limiting logic. Now whatever the algorithm you want you can put it ultimate ultimately call proceed which ultimately invokes the method right this is your ultimately method right on which you have put this annotation at the rate custom rate limiter okay so before actually calling this get product method you can say it first call this method uh implement the custom rate limiting logic and after that it proceed after that implement this method. So this we have already done inside AOP. So I won't go into depth again. So in the spring boot playlist you can check out this AOP one. So coming back to this now let's say that with rate limiter right we have provided a rate limiter rate limiter name fallback method in fallback method its signature should be same as the original method return type and parameter only thing is throwable should be extra how you handle it is totally up to you want to just log it log it you want to throw exception you can throw it in the application.properties properties by default rate limiter uses u again token bucket and these are the parameters which you have set. Now according to this one we said that only two tokens are present and after 10 second two more tokens will come and any request which not able to find a token should wait for 1 second before it get rejected. So now here if you see I have started the service. Now first I hit instantly hit one. So it able to call it able to call product API. Second time I call it able to get call a product API because it got token. It got token. The third time I called it says that rate limit exceeded try later. So this one it printed out this. Okay. Then I waited for some time to over the 10 second so that two more tokens get added. So after that I hit again able to hit able to hit. So two tokens are consumed. Again I hit rate limit exceeded. Try again later. Then I waited 10 seconds and then I hit again. So two times it hit properly. Two tokens consumed and I try to hit. No rate limited exceeded. So this is uh very very simple, right?
