=== Download Schema Registry and run (758s - 982s) ===

So, step one, we have to download the schema registry and we have to make it run. So, there are many providers you can use. You can use Confluent schema registry, which is the most popular one. You can use AWS Glue schema registry, Azure schema registry, all this you can use. So, I am going with the Confluent schema registry, which is very popular in the industry and many big product-based companies uses it. Okay? So, you can run this command. So, 8.2.0 is the latest one. And but, whichever the version you are interested in, you can go and download the community version of it. Okay? So, you can use this command or directly goes to the Confluent archive. Whatever the version you are interested in, you can download its JAR. Currently, I am not showing you the Docker way because I haven't covered Docker. So that more doubts will come like how I'm this Docker is running. So for now, we are doing manually. We are manually downloading the jar and making it up. So this will also make things little clear. Docker abstracts a lot of thing. And but I will soon cover Docker in the series also. Different series. So once we have downloaded it. So let's say I have downloaded it. Within that, you will see there is within this ETC schema registry, you will see this schema hyphen registry.properties. So you have to open it and select the port number. Currently, whichever the port number you want to make it run. Just select it. So I have selected 8085 because by default it give with 8081, but my already broker is running I think on 8081. So I have used this port number 8085. The second is that schema registry has to talk with Kafka. For what purpose? I will show you. But it has to talk with Kafka. So that we have to provide the bootstrap server like we are providing with our producer. Producer talk with Kafka, right? And in the producer, we provide the bootstrap server. Similarly, consumer talk with Kafka. And in the consumer also, we have provided the bootstrap server. Similarly, schema registry also talk with Kafka. So here also, we have to provide the bootstrap server. So you might be thinking why it has to talk with Kafka? I will show you. So I will provide it my both brokers which are running. Okay? And this topic underscore schema, which is the default one it has. You can change it the name. But this is the default. I would suggest keep it the same. So why it talks to the Kafka? Because it create this topic. Okay? And within this topic itself, it manages the schema, its version. I'll show you that one. But at this point of time, in step one, we have to download the schema registry, whichever you are interested in. I would suggest go with Confluent. Whichever the version you wanted. Once you have downloaded it, open this schema-registry.properties with within ETC and a schema registry folder. And add your port number, which is free, and the bootstrap server. Okay? And after that, we can start our controller and broker. Okay? And also the schema registry. So, means our Kafka is running, our you can say that uh you can producer consumer you can start later, but let's say our Kafka is running, both uh broker and controller, and after that, our schema registry, which is talking to it. Okay? And we can test that if it is running or not. So, let me show you.
