=== Consumer Flow with Schema Registry and Avro Deserializer (3305s - 3979s) ===

Now, consumer read the event. So, Kafka now has event present. Okay? Kafka now has event present like it has magic number, magic number, is schema ID, and the payload. Like this it has record. Now consumer says that, "Hey, give me the data." And now Kafka return the bytes. Now what would happen consumer side? So, consumer side deserializer, Kafka Avro deserializer. Now, let again consumer we have key and value. Key I'm using a string deserializer. Only for value I'm using Kafka Avro deserializer. So, only for value it will goes to the Avro deserializer. Now, this is the flow for the Avro deserializer. What it will do? Whatever Okay? Whatever the object it is getting. Oh, not object, whatever the byte it is getting. It has this, right? Magic, a schema ID, payload. It first check, okay, magic bit, let's say it has zero. So, it knows that next four byte is a schema and after that payload. So, it has no it knows that how to read the rest of the payload. Okay? I told you currently for this Avro you can say that the Confluent Schema Registry currently has zero only. Now, the next it will read is that read the schema ID. Okay? So, first it will check its cache. It will check its cache that, "Hey, for this is schema ID, let's say 1001, do we have the schema present in the cache or not?" So, currently let's say this is the first time. So, a schema is not present into the cache. So, no. So, what it will do is invoke the schema registry. It will make a HTTP call and it will say that, "Hey, this is the schema ID. Give me the schema." It return the schema. I told you, right? In the payload only values are present. 01 C1 5 55.0. So, what are the field? So, see, consumer might have also have an order. It but it can't use its its own version. It need to know that what is present into for this a schema ID the schema ID which I'm getting the exact schema schema which is present into the schema registry. It can rely on to that only for reading this payload. Okay? So, that's why for this a schema ID since it doesn't have in to the cache, it called the schema registry. It get the data. Now, first it will put that, "Okay, this is the schema ID. This is the schema. Put into the cache." So, the next time it doesn't have to make the call. Okay? So, now this is has a schema present from the registry. And if it is already present into the cache, then again come directly come to it. No need to hit the schema registry. Now, you have the schema which is from coming from the registry. Okay? Now, let's say this is from the registry. The schema from registry. Now, what it will do? It will read the payload. So, first is order ID string. This deserializer know that, "Okay, this many bytes make a string. So, this is order ID. Second is customer ID which is also string. So, it knows that, "Okay, this many bytes make a string. So, this is customer ID. Third, quantity int. So, it knows that how many bytes it has to read. It is quantity. Next is total amount which is double. So, it read that many bytes and assign to total amount. So, using the schema from registry it use the order proper order and knows the value for each field. So, at this point of time, it return a generic record. Generic record means that uh you can access like record {dot} get order ID, record {dot} get customer ID, record {dot} get quantity, total amount, like this you will get. And you will get the value. Okay? But sometime what you have to do is like instead of working with generic record, you have to work with proper order itself, order object itself. Okay? So you can make it uh so you we can also convert this generic record to order object simply. So first thing is we have to enable this into application {dot} properties. Reader equals to true, specific Avro reader equals to true. What this will do? So it will check in consumer it will check, hey do you have {dot} avsc file? Okay? It will read that. Okay? And now what it will do first in the schema registry it will check the name is order, the schema registry which is coming, right? In the schema registry it also have like what is the name and what is the name space. So it will check that the name is order, name space is com.edea.schema. So what it will when you have set this property true what it will do is that this deserializer will look for order {dot} java class within this name space of the consumer. If it present it will convert this generic record to this order class. If not, it will simply return this generic record itself. Okay? So very simple. So now here if you see that in consumer in Avro I have also put order.avsc. This is required just because I want I don't want to work with generic record. In industry in production generally we work with an object itself not with like generic record like I do record.getOrderID. Okay? Because there is no you can say that type validation. I need to do two string and all. With order it would be like simple getter and setter I can use it. So since we are using Avro deserializer that's why you can't create your own like order.java something. You have to create like here I have created dot avsc. Whatever you have to maintain. This is consumer specific snapshot you can say. Generally it is better if you use the same. Okay? But here let's say I'm using a record order schema is this. Whatever the field which I have to add I kept here. And for consumer also this is my consumer. Do Maven clean compile. What it will do is it will create this order.java within this namespace target Avro and it will create com.eda.schema com.eda.schema.order.java. So now I have this order object present here. So now when you have this property set to true specific Avro reader equals to true so the schema which is coming from registry from there it will check okay what is the name? Order. Namespace is let's say com the same right? com.eda.schema. So within this is key within this name is space it will check for order. If consumer has it, it will do the mapping automatically. Okay, that's what I have written here. If found, com.eda. Let's say whatever the schema.order. If found, do the mapping. If not, return generic record itself. And in application.properties, I will tell you my dependency same as producer. You don't have to do anything. I told you that when you add a serializer dependency, it will also bring deserializer. If you want to convert this generic record to order, okay, then you can add a schema because you need a parser for AVSC. And then you also have to add a plugin so that it will generate a Java class out of this .AVSC. Okay? Now in application.properties, very simple. Application name, consumer also need to talk with Kafka. So, bootstrap server, consumer group ID, deserializer key deserializer I'm using a string deserializer only. Value deserializer only I am using Kafka Avro deserializer. And for this value itself, this flow would be followed. Okay? If you want for key also, again, you can do that also. No problem. And it also has to talk with registry to fetch if it is missing in the cache, schema ID versus schema. So, it we have to provide where it consumer can talk to schema. And schema Avro reader true if you want generic record to convert to a Java object. Okay? So, you have added a dependency. You have added application.properties. And this is the AVSC file I have added. Name is order. Name space is this. So, order. java file would be created within this name space. And here, this is the listener. Topic, listen to this topic. And here, I am using this consumer record. This is the order. Okay? So, record.getValue, I'm not getting generic record. No, I'm getting direct order. Because I have made this true. And I have a order schema present. This order class present in the same schema name space which producer which is present into the schema coming from registry. But if it not able to find in this order, it will be like a generic record here. Got it? So, we can do that also testing.
