=== Problems without using Schema Registry (35s - 484s) ===

I will tell you what's the problem are. Okay. So, till now what we have done is let's say producer. This is the payload which it want to publish. This is the message. Okay. We have order ID, customer ID, quantity, total amount. First, it will goes to serializer. Serializer will convert it to bytes. And after you we have I've already covered into a producer that after serializer there are many steps like partition and all. So, after those step once the JSON serializer converted into byte, ultimately that goes to the Kafka. Now from Kafka when consumer fetch the record, fetch the data, ultimately it goes to a deserialization step. And in the deserialization step, it will again convert it back to an object. So, this is what we have seen till now. But in production, this will not work. Why is so? See, I'll tell you five use cases where this scenario will break in production. Use case one. Addition of new field. So, see this use case. So, now let's say producer has increased to version two of order and has added a new field shipping address. Whereas consumer is still on the older version. So you might say that hey both producer and consumer is reading the same let's say some repo which host order. But it's still they can have different version because let's say if producer make a change added a shipping address into this order then it can increase the version and it also increase the version of this repo. But it's still the consumer is still on the version one of this repo which has the order which doesn't have shipping address. Okay? So this is a very genuine and possible scenario. So producer is on version two of order where a new field has been added whereas consumer is still on version one of order where this field is missing. So what would happen? So in the JSON serializer the it will be converted into bytes published to Kafka from JSON deserializer what would happen is Jackson might ignore this unknown field because see shipping address now it has to map to this consumer order since there is no similar field it might get ignored. But if you have set up in a strict mode in the Jackson like this let's say this is your Jackson you are doing a JSON deserializer in that if you have put a strict mode fail on unknown properties then this will also throw an exception. So this is one use case. Another use case is removal of existing field. So again producer has moved to the version two of order in which it has removed this total amount field. But, consumer is still on the version one of the order where this field is still accepted. expecting. Okay? So, what would happen? So, when the consumer read the record and go through the deserialization phase, so Jackson assign for the primitive type, it will assign default value, for object, null. And this is very, very risky. Why? Because, see, producer is not even sending the total amount. Total amount could be 100, 200, but it is not sending it. But, the Jackson has assigned for the primitive type, it has assigned zero. Now, your business logic will run directly on top of it, and you will think that, "Hey, okay, total amount is zero." And your business logic will run. This could lead to a serious bug. Okay? So, there is no validation at all whether this field is missing or not, or whether this is just a default value which has been added. So, who is validating it? No one. So, this is another use case. Third use case, rename of a field. Let's say, producer is still on a version two of order, but it has renamed the field from total amount to amount. But, consumer is still on the version one. Okay? And it is expecting total amount. And it is sending it. But, what would happen is, since consumer is not aware of it, so there could be a you can say that a silent loss of data. Producer is sending amount which has a proper value, 100. But, consumer doesn't have a way to determine that this amount is equals to this total amount, and this would lead to a silent loss of data. It won't be able to map, and this would be set with a default value. Fourth, change of field type. Now, producer has moved to a version two of order where it has changed quantity from int to a string. Now, and consumer is still on the version one of order and it is expecting quantity to be int. What would happen? Your JSON deserializer, the Jackson will throw an exception, JSON mapping exception. Use case five, multiple consumer different expectation. So, see in real world one producer can integrate like multiple consumer. Okay, consumer one consumer two consumer three. So, the consumer one want all fields. Hey, for order I want all these fields. Consumer two say that, hey, I only want order ID and total amount. Consumer three says that, oh, okay, I only need order ID and shipping address. So, different consumer has different expectation. So, what if producer keep on changing its schema based on the consumer request? There is no contract between producer and consumer that, hey, producer will only provide this. There is no contract. Currently, it's simple JSON, raw JSON. So, there is no validation, no compatibility check. Producer can change whatever it want. So, let's say new consumer comes, consumer four. Hey, I want this new field to be added. What producer simply added and return it. Okay? Now, all the old consumer started also seeing this. So, there is no validation how the old consumer will behave. What if consumer four says that, hey, I want this field to be int integer. Earlier, it was a string. You simply change it without doing any validation. So, that's why when we have deal with multiple they have different expectation. This could lead to chaos. If there is no proper agreement or contract between producer and consumer. So, these are the five use cases which can happen in live if you're working with the Kafka production. And this is the real you can say that pain point of a developer. And the solution for this is a schema
