=== Producer Flow with Schema Registry and Avro Serializer (1114s - 2203s) ===

Step two. So step two is now producer creates a contract. Okay, so producer is the one which publish the message. Okay, so let's say this is the first time producer publishing a message. So our schema registry which maintains this topic _schema. Currently this topic has no data. It is empty. So this is the first time I'm telling you that producer has to create the contract first time. Producer is sending the message. So that's why it has to create the schema. So what all things required? Okay. So, first thing producer Our producer need to have this order.avsc file. Okay. So, this is you can say that the schema definition. If you are using Protobuf, you might have Protobuf file order.certain.proto or something. So, that will be the Protobuf definition you can give. Okay? So, this .avsc we can define the schema. So, you can say that it's a contract between producer and consumer. So, now in this avsc format, we can put type. Type is nothing but consider that it's an object. So, whatever the field it is writing, consider that it's an object. Record means object. You can provide the name of this. Okay. Well, so you can say that this dot avsc will be converted to Java object. Will be converted to Java object. And when it converted to Java object, this name is ultimately become the name of the Java class, order.java. And this record tells that this is an object. Type is record means object. So, ultimately this class will be converted to a Java object. And name is Java object would be order.java. And this Java object order.java would be created within a namespace com.edea.schema. Under this path, it will be get created. Okay? And these are the field which will get added in this order object that string order ID is string consumer ID is string product ID int quantity double total amount. So, these all field will be created. But, please note that this object which will get created, this is not a simple POJO. This is not a normal POJO that, okay, a class order would be created and it is just has field all this field with just getter and setter. No. This is you can say that very very specific for serializer. Okay. So, it has many additional method like get the schema which serializer will use it. The get the schema will return this schema itself complete internally. It also has method which help the serializer to serialize the object, you can say. So, in simple term the first step producer has to define the schema definition. And whatever the schema you can say that you are using Avro, Protobuf, JSON schema, based on that you can create that one file where you will specify the definition. Okay. So, this is .avsc for Avro in which I have made the type record name order, name is space given, and these are the field. So, dependency we needed. Who will parse this? So, we have created this file. But, somebody need to parse this file, right? So, we need a dependency first. So, that's where I have shown the dependency. This dependency org.apache.avro the version, the latest version which we are using it. This knows how to parse this schema.avsc. Okay? Then also, we have to create an Java object out of this .avsc. How to do that? This plugin we have to add. Okay? So, what this plugin will do? Source directory. So, it will read this file. So, this file I have kept under AVRO folder. So, from this source main AVRO, from this folder this dot AVSC file would be readed. It will generate a Java object and it will put into this path. {slash} generated source {slash} AVRO and the name is com.eda.schema. com.eda.schema/order.java. Okay? So, this plugin is used to create a Java class out of this AVSC. And we have one more dependency, which is brings the serialization and deserialization logic. So, this serializer. So, currently we are using AVRO, so we need AVRO serializer. And this serializer also brings the deserializer logic also. Now, we will go one level more deep like what task serializer do. Okay? And why we need to convert this AVSC file to Java object. What's the purpose? I will show you. But, first thing we have to understand that producer has to define the schema because producer is the one who is publishing the message. So, who who is the best to define the schema? Producer. And whichever protocol you are using, I am using AVRO, so this is the way to define the schema, dot AVSC. Okay? Now, producer is making the first send call to Kafka. First send call. So, first thing we have to do is we have to do Maven clean compile. Why? Because when you do Maven clean compile this plugin will run. It will convert this dot avsc to Java class. Okay? It will read from this source and it will create a Java class within this. So, once that is done, understand the flow. So, producer is trying to do a send. Here, this is the topic. This is the key. Now, the value is order object which is generated from dot avsc. Because see, now we are working with Avro serializer. It only understand the value. Okay? The See, whether we can have key serializer can do two things. Key serializer and the value serializer, correct? Okay? So, let's say for the simplicity, I'm saying key is a string normal string only. Nothing different. Okay? It's not an object. It's string only. For value I am using and this one. Order object, but it is generated from dot avsc. This order object I have not written. So, from this dot avsc, when I did Maven clean compile, this order object class is created. Now, using that I created an object from that class and used as a value. Now, Avro serializer understand this. Okay? It understand this that okay this order object because see how it understand that? Because when we create a Java class out of this dot avsc, this is not a normal pojo. It also extend a specific record base. So, you can say that this Avro understand that, okay, this is the object which is created through {dot} AVSC. Now, I have to serialize it. So, what is step it will do? First, it will call it will get the schema. I told you that every send we are doing going to do, it pass through validation. But, there are a lot of things happen. Just when we say validation, lot of things happen. So, now go step by step and little slow. So, first time send is happening. And the producer has called the send. Request reach to the serializer. So, we are using Avro serializer. This dependency we have added, right? Avro serializer. What it will do? It will see that, okay, order object {dot} get a schema. So, whatever the schema I will get. So, here when from {dot} AVSC we get this class, it is just a non not a normal project. It has additional method like get a schema, which return to the complete schema that field type. This field type like this. So, what it will do is it will generate a hash of this a schema first. Okay? So, your order matters. So, whatever the field you are adding into this, that their order matter also. Because we are generating an hash of this a schema. And this will check, hey, do I have a schema ID for this a schema hash? Currently, we are doing first time, so definitely no, we don't have anything. Okay? So, what it will do? It will try to register the schema because it's a first time and we don't have a schema ID for this schema hash. So, it will register it. So, it will invoke First time it will make an HTTP call to a schema registry. Okay, what info it will pass? It will pass the subject. Subject is nothing but topic hyphen value or topic hyphen key. So, you know that serialization works at two places. Key we can have key serializer, we can have value serializer. Okay? So, for simplicity now we are for key we are using string serializer only. Okay, only for value we are using object but not a simple JSON uh serializer. We are using Avro. Okay, so that's why this flow comes into the picture. So, subject would be topic order hyphen event hyphen value. So, we are only currently doing value. So, only for value we are using an object which is generated from {dot} AVSC. So, the subject would be passed order hyphen event hyphen value and the schema. This is schema, right? The complete schema for this one. That would be passed. Now, a schema registry what it will do? It will check. Hey, do I have this order hyphen event hyphen value this subject? So, this is called subject. Hey, do I already have this subject? Currently no, this is the first time, right? So, it is not present. So, what it will do within a Kafka it will store this details into this topic. Underscore schema topic it will store this. Subject is order hyphen event hyphen value, version one because this is the first time request is coming. The schema okay? The order schema, right? So, order ID string, customer ID string, quantity in total amount double and the compatibility backward. That I will cover later. Why this is also important. This is default. Since we haven't not provided anything by default is backward. Now what and the schema ID. So it generate one unique ID for this. Now what the schema registry will return it? It will return the schema ID back to our Avro serializer. Okay, now we got the schema ID 1001. So what it will do? It will put into cache. So what it will put into uh cache? The hash schema hash. So whatever the schema, it will generate a hash, right? So against that schema hash, it will put the schema ID. And once that done, it will complete the serialization process. Now in the serialize, what it will add? One magic byte, then a schema ID, and the payload. So magic byte is nothing. Currently it's always zero. Okay? This tell the deserializer what the version of the wire protocol. With this, deserializer know how to interpret rest of the byte. Okay, so in simple terms if I would say, when the request goes to the deserializer, when the deserializer receive this, so deserializer say that, okay, zero. Then it you can say that it's a version of the protocol uh for this Avro. It knows that, okay, for the version zero, next four byte is a schema ID and after that payload. Maybe in future when magic byte comes one, let's say, then the deserializer has the value that, okay, next six bytes I need to run as a schema ID and after that would there would be a data. Okay, so for now zero is uh present. Currently there is no other version for this Avro protocol. So first it will add a magic byte, which is currently always zero. Then it will add the schema ID. Whatever the schema ID which has been generated. Okay? It will add that, which is 1001, right? It will add it into this. So, 4 bytes. And after that, our payload. And one very important part that within the payload, if you remember in our JSON, what goes into the payload? Our field and the value. Let's say order ID and the data. But in the Avro, the payload only values goes. Okay? Only values go. So, let's say this is the magic. This is the schema. Generally, this is stored in binary form. But for only simplicity and learning purpose, I just represented in the normal plain text itself. But generally, it should be in the binary form. So, one Here, if you see, I have a magic bit. Then, 4 byte you have the schema ID, 1001. And the payload. Now, within the payload, I directly have only values. No field and value. So, first is order, then consumer ID, then total quantity then quantity and total amount. Why not field? See, we have added the schema ID, right? From this schema ID, schema registry has the schema present. And I told you that order matters. So, it knows that when I have in the payload, I have already values. 55.0. It knows that for this schema ID, the first is order ID, this first is order ID. Then, customer ID, this is customer ID. Then, quantity, this is quantity. Then, total amount, this is total amount. So, with this, it you can say that it save the memory, also. Okay? So, there is a lot of you'll need less of So, you got it? What is happening? And ultimately, this data goes to the Kafka. So, now in this application properties, what we have to add? So, first thing is this is common in the producer. We added a bootstrap server. We added a key serializer. Currently, I told you that we are using string serializer only. But, it is also possible that for key serializer, also you can have a Kafka Avro serializer. Okay? But, for that, you need its file also. Let's say object key.avsc file. And inside this, whatever the field you wanted to have uh put, you can add it. But, if it is a normal string, you can have a string serializer. But, for say here, currently, over only value we are using Kafka Avro serializer. It's an object, but we are not using plain Java serializer. We are using Kafka Avro. So, we are going to create Okay? Object. Which is compatible with this Avro serializer. It's It will be not like simple order.java. No. It would This class would be created from dot avsc file. Okay? And this is not a normal pojo. Avro serializer understand this. So, value serializer is Kafka Avro serializer. And this is the schema registry URL where your schema registry is running. So, I told you, right? That serializer need to make a call here to register the schema. So, it make a HTTP call. So, it need to know where your schema is running. So, HTTP localhost 8085 it is running. So, in simple you need to tell the producer where is your schema registry and also the value serializer whatever you are using. So, we are using Kafka Avro serializer, not simple JSON serializer. Only this thing we have to add.
