=== What is Schema and Schema Registry (484s - 758s) ===

registry, very popular and very highly used in the industry with Kafka. So, a schema registry. The first thing we have to understand is what is a schema? A schema is nothing but considered as a definition, formal definition of the structure of data. So, it is just a definition that hey, this is field one, this would be of this type. This is field two, this would be of this type. So, you can say that you're providing certain definition or you can say that uh proper contract. That for order, you would find only this field and this field is of this this type and this is the order. Okay? So, there are many different you can say that we have Avro, Protobuf, JSON schema. But Avro is the most popular with Kafka. This is most popular. Protobuf also you can use it, but this is very frequently used. And what is a schema registry? A schema registry you can say that it maintains this a schema, its version. Any change in a schema, first it also perform a validation, compatibility check. So, a schema you understand, it's just a format. Okay? It's just a definition. Field type like this. A schema registry is maintain this a schema. Okay, version. And if any new version comes, it do the validation that the new version is compatible with the old one or not. So, very high level, very high level and very simple term if I have to explain, a schema registry brings validation before producer publish an event. That's all. Okay. Now, earlier producer was using the JSON serializer. Now, it won't use JSON serializer. It uses appropriate serializer. If you are using this a schema, Avro, you will have Avro serializer. Protobuf, Protobuf serializer. So, appropriate serializer we have to use. And what it will do is it will check with a schema registry first. Hey, I am going to publish an event. I'm going to do a send. This is the topic. This is the key. This is the value. Okay. This is I'm going to publish. So, this is the schema for this, right? So, it will just say that, "Hey, I am going to publish this value validated." So, a schema registry first validated if this a schema whatever I'm going to publish if it is compatible means it will not break consumer. Let's say, in simple term it will say that it will not break your consumer. It will say that, "Yes, you are good to go." And then only it will publish to the Kafka. And this is happened for every send. For every send, whenever you are sending an event to a Kafka, first a schema registry comes into the picture. It validate whatever you are sending, the message. It should not break consumer. If not, you can go ahead and publish to Kafka. Otherwise, this a schema registry will throw an exception. So, in simple terms, the schema registry brings validation before producers send an event. But, this brings so many question. Does with every send, are we calling a schema registry? Will it not making uh latency impact? Okay? And how this the flow works actually? So, for that, we have to go one level deeper. So, I'll show you a step-by-step with demo and things will get clear. So, but very high level, all I want to have at this point of time understanding is that every message you are sending through Kafka, first validation, it will pass through validation. It will check that consumer would be able to consumer will get break or not. How? How it will check? What is the logic? Okay? How version is maintained? All this question good get ultimately resolved now. Okay? So, let's go deeper.
