=== Demo of Producer Flow with Schema Registry and Avro (2203s - 3305s) ===

Okay, so let's see that. First, let's see that. So, everything is running. Our producer is running, broker is running, our schema registry is running. This is our schema registry is running. Okay, now we have to make our producer up and running. So, this is our producer. This is order.avsc. Type is record, name is order. This is the name space. Okay, so this is very simple avsc file. And uh during application startup, this topic would be created, order-event. Okay. I have an order controller order controller class. In that, very simple, what I'm doing is that whatever the request I am getting, order ID, customer ID, quantity, total amount. So, I am invoking the product service, send order. Now, here if you see in this, this order. I have not created this class. Okay, this class extend a specific record base. This is auto generated from avsc file. Okay. So, this I told you, right? This is not a normal pojo. This also has a builder capability. So, like in a builder design pattern way, we can create this object, order.new builder. You can set order ID consumer ID, product ID, quantity, total amount, bill, whatever you have to set. Whatever you have to set, set it. And then ultimately call the send. KafkaTemplate.send, we have this is the topic we have to publish. This is the key. Now, value if you see the order order is this. Which is Avro generated one. Correct? So, only order value is generated from the Avro base. Key is normal simple string. So, that's why in the application.properties key is normal string serializer. But, value I have told go with Avro serializer. Now, Avro serializer for value it knows what it has to do. Okay? It will perform all these step. Avro serializer perform all these step that okay, whatever the object I'm getting call the get a schema and this get a schema will return the data. Why it will return the data? Because this this is not a normal POJO. This is created from dot AVSC file. This is dot AVSC file, right? So, this class this order class has get a schema method. So, those will work fine. Okay? And after that in pom.xml you have the Avro serializer dependency and the schema dependency and the plugin. Which will generate the Java class. Okay? So, in terminal I'm just simply doing first Maven clean compile first. Okay? So, that if you see in the target generated source Avro now inside this this is our schema com.edureka.schema.order. So, this get created. After that I'm starting the producer application up. Okay? Producer application is up and running. Now, we just have to hit this endpoint. Which endpoint? /api/avro/orders. So, /api/avro/orders we have to hit this endpoint. This is I am sending. Okay? Send. Order sent to order events. So, partition two offset zero. Now, let's see. Now, first uh we have to see we have to describe the schema first. So, here let's zoom it a bit. So, here if you see the topic, a schema is created. It has only one partition which has two replica. That's all. One partition two replica. So, leader is three means our broker one is the leader for this schema. Similarly, for order-events or event, let me see. So, the message got published to partition two offset zero. Partition two is the leader three. Both the broker one. Broker one is the leader. So, now let's see the broker one. So, broker one logs zoom it a bit. Broker one logs partition two. Okay, so let's zoom it a bit. So, this is the data. Okay? So, our event got successfully published, but in the form of binary. Now, also let's see the schema. So, a schema But, I think broker one itself is the leader, right? For a schema a schema has only one partition zero. Which is leader three. Leader three is our broker one. So if I check the broker one and schema is underscore schema hyphen zero. No, schemas. Correct, schemas. So here if you see this data. So this holds the schema information. Order ID type is a string, name type is customer ID type is a string. Similarly, product ID type is a string, quantity type is int, total amount type is double. Okay, it has the version also. So this is the whole schema present, its version present also. Got it? So this flow is clear? That what happened when you do the first time send? So I only did the first time send, right? So when I did the first time send it created a hash. No value present. It will register it. Currently we are for value only we are using this Avro base. So this Avro serializer knows that okay this value I have to find out the schema, generate a hash. Currently there is no schema present into the cache, so it will ask the schema registry register it. Since it is the first time, there is no history, it will create. The subject is your topic hyphen value or key. So currently we are only for the value uh we are using Avro serializer, right? I showed you that currently in application.property only for value we are using Avro serializer. But for key also if you have to use so for key also you have to make Kafka Avro serializer. Then you have to create one more like order key.avsc if it's an object, right? So, you have to create order key.avsc. Okay? And within this controller order ID then simple you won't have to create. Then you have to have like order key whichever you will create the class from .avsc. Then you have to pass that one. So, then serializer will automatically know that I have to register that also. Okay? But they don't uh you can say that conflict with each other because subject is different. Topic is same, but hyphen value hyphen key. So, currently for key I am using string serializer only, no problem. Only for value I am using Avro serializer. So, for value only it will try to get whatever the object I send, get a schema. And this will work because this is not a simple pojo, it is created from .avsc file, so it has the schema. This method will pass. Okay? Generate a hash. Cache do not have it. It will register it and ultimately schema registry put it into a schema topic. This I have showed you. It will return this schema ID. It will put into the cache now. After that it will serialize. Magic byte a schema ID and the payload. Payload only contain values, not field name because with this schema ID it can take out the schema. And order men matters, so with each order it knows the values also. And ultimately this goes to the Kafka. Okay? Clear? Now, what happen when producer make a second call but after changing the schema. Now, let's say that what I am saying is Now, I am changing quantity into a string. Okay? Now, let's say producer has moved to next version. Some Some consumer asked me that, "Hey, I want quantity as a string." And I changed it. I do not bother that, "Okay, if any consumer read my old message which was in, will it break or not?" I don't care. This is a new request comes, I change it simply blindly. Now, what would happen? Now, let's say that whatever the data would come. Let's accept in a string now. Okay? Uh this would be become our string. And our set quantity would be a string. So, I just need to Maven clean compile again, so that from AVSC new it will create. Okay? So, ultimately this should pass. So, currently it's not updated. So, just a sec. {dot} AVSC is string. quantity So, it has not updated. Uh now, let me check. Let us stop the producer first. And Maven clean compile again. Close it and open it again. It's strange. Quantity I changed to a string. Okay, this is a string. order This should get changed to This should get updated. Clear. Currently, okay. Sorry. Sorry. I am in different folder. So, this is the producer folder, right? So, for producer, we have to do Maven clean compile. Now, it will do. Okay. Something wrong. ordercontroller.java Cool. So, now here if you see, in this order, this become to the character sequence. And this change we have done. That's it. Earlier, we have published a message with int. Now, I am trying to publish. I have changed this based on the request with the consumer. I have changed it. Now, let me start the producer again. I started the producer. I am publishing, but quantity this time as a string. What would happen? Internal server error. Exception. What is the exception? It says that Here. Type mismatch. The type of the field in the new schema does not match with the old schema. Okay. A string not compatible with the writer type int. So, now what exactly happened? See, in the validation, this is failed. What happened? So, in the order.avsc, now let's say producer has changed from int to string. This is what I have done, right? Correct? I have changed it. I did Maven clean install, Maven clean compile. So, it created a new order.java class, which now this quantity as a string. And when I try to publish it, it throws an exception. That it does not match with the old schema. So, what's the flow exactly? So, now understand this. Now, when producer try to do send, and the value here, this is the schema, right? Which is now this order object is again generated from avsc only. And now this time this is a string. Correct? We have changed it. When we do Maven clean compile, this got changed. Now this ultimately goes to the serializer, Avro serializer, and you know that for value in the application.properties, for value we are using Avro serializer. Okay? So, this will ultimately accept this. Now it knows that for Avro serializer, whatever the object I am getting, I need to do get a schema. It will do It will get it because from avsc only we generated this order object. So, we get the schema. And we generate the hash. Remember that when the previous time when we did hash, generate hash, that time quantity was int. This time it is a string. So, hash will not be same, correct? So, whatever the hash I will get now, is this present into cache? No. It is not present. So, it will try to register it. It will try to register it. So, it will pass the subject. Subject is topic- value. Like value. So, order- event. So, we are trying to do value serializer, right? So, hyphen value. And the schema it will pass. Now schema registry will check. Hey, this is the subject I am getting, order- event- value. Do I have it? It will say that yes, we already have a subject version one is already present with this is schema compatibility type is backward. This is the schema ID. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So now this will run. Whether do some compatibility check and do the validation whether the new schema which is getting will it break the consumer or not? Okay. If it failed, it will throw exception. If it pass, it will add like 1002 schema ID, subject version two, and the new schema whatever whatever get passed and the compatibility type. So at this point of time this got failed. This check got failed. Okay, since this failed, this request got failed. Now you might be asking that how it determine that this will fail or not. What's the validation? So this compatibility check based upon this backward we have something called forward full There are many. I will do I will show you in the last once we complete the whole flow. Okay. But remember that a schema registry at this point of time determine that hey now you have changed the quantity to string. But in Kafka there is int present for this. Old message present with int type. If consumer let's say which is let's say on this new schema, for example, a string. If it get int will it break or not break? So there are different you can say that validation logic which depend upon backward and forward and full. I will tell you with example at the bottom of this. But at this point of time, don't worry about this like how it determine whether this should whether this need to be failed or not. This is schema need to be failed or not. This is not a concern at this point of time because I will cover it soon. At this point of time, what I wanted you to understand that every time now producer is sending. So this is schema producer might have changed. So it doesn't directly goes to Kafka. It first goes to this flow. The schema registry run the validation. Now the new schema which you are going to publish is it compatible or not? Is it compatible change? Backward compatible or not? If not, throw exception like it is throwing here. What are the rules? I will tell you soon. But this flow is clear, right? Avro serializer where it comes into the picture because only in application.properties for value only we have assigned the Kafka Avro serializer. So only for value serialization this will get invoked and this is actually own flow. Get the schema and this whole flow again. So this, let's put into a backlog now. The compatibility check which I will cover soon. Okay?
