=== Different ways of doing Compatibility check (Backward, Forward) (4113s - 5076s) ===

to this part. If you remember, we in the producer I told that whenever producer is trying to publish anything it goes to the validation and if the validation pass, then only it will proceed further. Otherwise, it will fail. Or you can say that whenever a new or change in the schema producer is doing it will check if the new schema is compatible with the old. If yes, it will record the new schema into underscore schemas topic. Else, it will throw an exception. Now, question is what's the logic behind this? How it check whether it is compatible or not, new schema is compatible or not. Now, let's jump into compatibility level. So, we have backward, forward, full, backward transitive, forward transitive, full transitive. Very simple. Many engineer get confused with this, but let me tell you how I generally like without revising it or something, I always recall it. Backward. Consider that this is all this compatibility check you can say that a schema registry is doing a compatibility check to save consumer. So, producer is changing the schema. And when producer change it, consumer should not break it. So, understand with this one. Very simple. Now, let's say this schema registry purpose is to protect the consumer. So, understand with this. In Kafka, we have a message. Each message has a schema. Like each message is associated with a particular schema only, right? Because in Kafka, you can say that we have you have a payload, which is nothing but a message and schema ID. So, it belong to a particular schema. Right? Similarly, consumer read it. And after that, it will uh convert it to its order object. That's it. So, this order object might be another like it has its own schema, right? So, it's reading it to its own schema. Okay? So, it has its own version. So, what is the possibility? V1, V1, V2, V2, V1, V2, V1, V2. So, these are all the possible combination. So, here if you see, when both message, the payload is in the let's say schema version one. And in the consumer also, it has exactly the same field. Okay? Then, it's the no issue. Okay, we don't have to worry about this case. Similarly, we don't have to worry about this uh use case when both are in new version. Okay, every message is V2, every consumer is also in V2. We don't have to worry about this. Consider these two scenarios. Consumer is on latest version. Okay, latest version, but message it is reading is the old. Understand that again. Consumer is using the new version. Okay? And new schema version, but if it read the message which is on old schema, what would happen? We need to test this. We need to validate this. Another use case is, what if consumer is in schema version one, if it read a message which is written with the schema version V2, what would happen? So, these two use cases we have to validate mostly. So, now here if you see, think from the consumer perceptive. Backward means we are looking back into the system. And from consumer perceptive, consumer is let's say on version two. Now it's looking back into the message which are written with the old schema version one. So, that's backward. Okay? So, all the validation happen in this like, okay, what if consumer uses this version two schema and read a message which is written with version one. Backward. Forward means your consumer is old. Your consumer is on version one only, schema version one. But if we read a message which is written with version two, it is looking forward. Your schema your consumer is old. But it's looking forward, message written with version two. That is forward. So all the validation runs from this perspective. Old schema on consumer, what if it read the new schema messages? Understand with this example, it will get more clear to you. So backward is default. Means consumer with new schema version, consumer with new schema version can read old schema event or not. Example, let's say in the schema registry is V1. Version one. And in the version one we have only name, order ID. Type is int, only one. Int order ID. Only one we have. This is schema version one. Now producer is sending event with new schema. Producer has changed the schema and it is making one send call with the new schema. Order ID, int order ID, and also string status, which has default pending. Now it is sending this. Now what is schema registry will do? Schema registry will think, let's say we are using backward compatibility level. Schema registry will think from a perspective that, okay, what if this version two consumer is on this version? And it read a message that is written with V1. What would happen? So it has different rules like, okay, let's say we have added a new field here. Correct, we have added a new field. So, it will run a rule that okay, this is the version one. Message is written with version one. And producer is sending this where it has added a new field. Okay, so this rule it will run. And since we are using backward, it will think from perceptive that consumer with new schema version two. Means consumer is on version two. So, it's just thinking. Okay. Just putting consumer into one of the shoes. Let's say consumer is on version two. Means consumer has order ID and consumer has a status which is default pending. Now, this consumer read a message which is written on V1. Okay, so let's say in Kafka there is a message with just order ID. What would happen? So, this is safe. It will say that this is safe rule say that because now let's say when it read it, what would happen? It will get the order ID. This order ID ultimately will get mapped to this. And since this consumer is also expecting a status, the status is not there. Since it has default, so it will use default pending. Okay. So, this is safe. It will allow producer to go. Okay. No problem. You have defined a pending. So, with backward scenario, it will use this perceptive consumer putting consumer on the version two. And see that if it read the old message, will it break or not? No. Similarly, let's say if producer remove Let's say earlier in the V1, it has only order ID. And then added new field without default. Now, let's say producer has added a new field a status, but there is no default. The schema registry will not allow it. Why? Because it will again use the same thing. Because backward, right? Consumer on the new schema V2 reading an old Kafka message order ID, will it be able to properly complete the read? Order ID ultimately get mapped to order ID. It don't know how to fill a value for the status and there is no default value. So, no. Not allowed. So, it will fail it. Okay? Now, let's say use case three. Producer has removed the field. In the earlier V1 registry, it has two field. int order ID, string status. But now producer is sending an event with only V2 with only order ID. Will it allow it or not? So, what it will do? It will again think from perceptive that, okay, if my consumer is on V2, means only order ID present. But in the Kafka, let's say old message version one, it has order ID and status. What would happen? Will consumer will be able to read it properly? From message order ID would be properly mapped. Status, consumer doesn't have a status, so this will be ignored. Yeah, no problem. Everything will fine. Nothing will break. Our application will not crash. So, like this it will check. Okay? So, if you have added a new field, so in schema whatever it will find, okay, it added a new field, remove a new field, or change the type. So, all those rule will run. Putting consumer in one of the perceptive. In backward, consumer re- assume that it would have a new schema reading the message with the old schema and then think from that perceptive. Forward is like consumer is on old schema, let's say V1, reading the message which is written with the new schema V2. And from that perceptive it will think very simple. Again, the same let's say take the same example in the schema registry we have version one which has only one field. Now producer is changing the schema schema by doing certain news and but it has to be validated. Now version two has order ID and status. So now it will do the validate. Okay, new field is added. So my consumer is on version one. So it has only order ID. Now the message in Kafka let's say on version two. It has order ID and status. So this order ID will go properly map to this. A status consumer doesn't have the field. No problem. It will ignore it. So this is safe. If new field is added with the forward logic that is safe. Remove field with the default. Now let's say this is earlier schema in which status has default pending. Now producer has removed it. So this is a new schema update you can say producer is trying to do. Will it be allowed or not? So again it will check that okay let's put consumer old. So it is on V1. So it has order ID and status pending. Okay, now it is reading a message which is old. Which is no new. Which is V2. Which has only order ID. Order ID map to order. It is expecting a status. Not present so it will use default. So this is safe. Okay. So I can make it green. Remove field without default. So if default is not present then it should not be allowed. Got it? Backward forward, how it put the consumer into one of the shoes and then check whether crash will happen or not. Full means backward plus forward. So, it will run all the rules like let's say whatever the schema producer is sending. If in this producer if in this is schema it has added a field, deleted a field, also change the type. So, it will check all from the perspective from backward and then from forward both. Then we have backward transitive, forward transitive, full transitive. Means let's say we can have many version. And now producer is trying to send a new version let's say new schema version which ultimately become V4. So, with this backward forward and all it will always check the new schema with the last one. But with transitivity with transitive this new schema which producer is trying to send, it will check with not only last with also all previous version. That's the only difference. It do not just compare with last version but all previous version. Got it? Now it is clear? Like how it determine? So, now if I come to that point where it throws an exception, where it was. It throws an exception at there. Now can you know how it determine whether this should throw an exception or not? Where it gone? So, what we have done is we have changed from integer to string. Integer to string. And we are running a backward. So, in the backward it will put consumer. Consumer into new. Correct? So, into the new it will say that okay quantity it expect as a string." It looking backward. Message returned with the old one. Old one one was int quantity. So, this quantity, this is a string, will it be able to map it? No. It will throw an exception. Incompatible type that it says that. Okay? Do not match with the old schema. String not compatible with the writer type int. Got it? This is how it does the validation. Now, you might be thinking how we can set this configuration level. So, very simple. In a schema registry.properties, if you remember where we set the where when we set up a schema registry, we have set up, right? There we can add compatibility.level equals to forward, backward, full, whatever you want. But, you can say that this will get applies to all. Like all subjects. Order-events value, order-event key. If you have different topic itself, payment-event value, payment-event key. To all topics, different topics this will get applied. So, it's a global. So, once you do this, you can override it to a specific subject itself. So, you can hit the rest API {slash} config {slash} subject. Whatever the specific subject, topic-whether value or key. Compatibility, whichever you want. So, you can make a put request also. So, it will just override for this subject. Clear? So, I know this is a very big topic, and I tried to cover it in a single video. But, I tried to cover it everything. Try it out. I will also push the code into the Git, so you can also practice. But, this is very interesting topic. Do practice with your hand. Things will get clear. Okay, guys. Thank you. Bye.
