=== Pagination and Sorting in Native Query (1108s - 1355s) ===

you in the native SQL in both the approach with a dynamic or with the direct at the rate query, that also. But, I hope dynamic native query is clear. How it is actually used. So, first way in the dynamic I would say that dynamic native query way. How can you can use in pagination and sorting? So, see it's very simple like how we are writing a plain SQL, the same way we have to write it. Like nothing no different syntax we have to remember. So, I have written a proper query which I wanted. All the if else condition I have dynamically I added it and properly added into the parameter also in this list. Okay? Now, I have to append like a sorting. Let's say I want to sort order by. So it's the same query builder. It's a string only, right? Query builder. Append order by like in the same query after all where clause has been done. After all where I have to do order by whatever the append with descending. It's a normal SQL queries. We are just a string builder. It's just appending. Okay, so sorting is done. After that for pagination in the plain SQL query, what we have is limit and offset. So the same thing we have to set like query builder. Append limit question mark, offset question mark. Now we have to put it into a parameter list also. Parameter. Add size. So this is ultimately your size. Okay, like in one page, how many records? And then offset. Like page number, page zero, page one, page two, like so this would be your offset. Okay, now we get a native query. We just replace the question mark in the native query with the values which is present into this one. Okay. And then ultimately executed the query. Okay, so it is as straightforward as it is. Like nothing. But if we talk about pagination in the like how we can do it like if we are using at the rate query annotation and native query equals to true. It's the same way how we were doing in JPQL. We have a method page pageable parameter which we can append it. We don't have to write anywhere here. Okay, that automatically JPA will do this for append it for us. Okay. Now in the just request, we can just send the page request.of. Okay, what is the offset page number and the size of a page? Okay, and if you have to sort it, you can like this. We have already discussed in the JPQL before itself. So it is same, nothing different. And if you see the query it will generate like this. It will automatically add offset pagination properly for you. So, this is one detail like I have a user details. Okay, 1 2 7. And if your query is like on phone. So, this 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. So, we are sorted by phone descending. So, 7 6 5 4 3 2 1. And page zero and five. So, 1 2 3 4 5. So, this will come 7 6 5 4 3 2 1. Five in one page. So, guys, if you think that I'm going little fast, it's because we have already covered most of the things in the previous videos. So, this pageable and all we have already seen this query notation we have already seen. Nothing much differs than the native query. It's just like native query equals to true. Okay. So, it's just like a context like how it is actually used. Rest everything is same. Okay. So, if you are finding the pace little bit fast, it's I would highly recommend that please watch out the previous video. That would help you to set up a context like why it's linked with the previous video. Okay. Now, one question to you comes to your mind, right? Hey, Shash, we have JPQL.
