=== Criteria API (1355s - 2661s) ===

But I feel that native query is much more better. Even though it has a very much DB dependent, but at least I can write dynamic queries. And this is something which is very important in the industry, right? Because we have everything dynamic which like no queries is static. So, then I think JPL JPQL we will never use it. We will always go with this. So, it's there, but with the name criteria API. Okay, you know that JPQL biggest advantage is that it is managed by JPA. And when it And when it is managed by JPA, you know that there is a framework which takes care of updating the caching persistence context and entities lifecycle. You don't have to worry about object uh which one is creating, which one is destroying. So, everything is properly taken care. So, with native SQL, everything comes to your bucket. You have to handle it. And also, it is DB independent. In future Once you return, in future you change from MySQL to something else, nothing got changed. Okay? So, criteria API comes into the picture, where it supports like the same JPA enable like JPA manage this. It works on entity, not on direct DB. So, it's DB independent. Okay? And we can write dynamic queries with this. So, native SQL query support dynamic query building, but they're database dependent. That's why JPA criteria API exists. It is allow you to build dynamic type safe queries without writing raw SQL. Okay, you don't have to write a raw SQL where you get a chance that you are you are writing, right? Select asterisk from If you don't know SQL query, let's say you mistake with A you you wanted to write A&amp;D, but you write AMD. So, there is like not a type safe, but here it's a type safe because everything now we are dealing with object. So, syntax-wise, it would be like you don't have to worry about that. Here everything is a string. You are putting a string. If there is some mistake, you won't get it. So, that's why I'm saying it's a builder dynamic type safe queries. Sometimes some engineer feels that criteria API is very difficult to understand, but I feel it easy if you understand it through hierarchy. So, this is the hierarchy which I have created. This will give you a quick glance like how we can create criteria APIs in a very simple manner. So, the first is criteria builder. This criteria builder is used to create everything. Okay? So, first criteria builder we use to create a criteria query. This criteria query is nothing but your actual query which you want to write. But, here we are not writing direct string. We are using it through object. So, in this criteria query, we can do from, we can do even join. We if we have to like select only a specific columns, we can use multi select. If you have to do all columns, we can use select method. We have like a where where you can put filters. So, filters like condition here it is defined through predicate. Okay? You have like and, or, not between different conditions. You have order, group by, having. So, all comes under criteria query. You can whatever it's required to build a criteria query. You will find different method here. Once the query is created, okay? Now, criteria builder helps you to execute it. So, after that, once the you got a query, now you have to execute it. So, here it has something called type query object which executes the above criteria query which you have created. So, this type query also has multiple field like get result list. It will return you a list of rows like so it's you will accept like a list of something. Get single result only you will get one object. Let's say user one object. It also have certain like where you can put up a generation like things set first result it's like an offset. Page number 012 and maximum result in one page what is the limit. So if we understand this hierarchy then it would be very very easy to use criteria API to write any query. Okay, let's see one example. I have created one controller class. Get user details by phone criteria API. So it's a dynamic I'm building like if phone number comes then only added. Okay, and whatever the phone number I'm sending use it. So this is the get API. Now in the service class if you see what I am doing is I am using entity manager. This is my criteria API where I'm doing. So I've got a phone number. What is the first step in the criteria API? We have to create a criteria builder. Because from that criteria builder itself we will be creating a criteria query and executing that query. So we use entity manager from that we do get criteria builder. We get now criteria builder object. First step is completed. We created an object of criteria builder. Now from this criteria builder we have the second step is to create a criteria query. Okay, this is the second step like we have to create a criteria query. So now from the criteria builder I am creating a criteria query. Okay, now what is this internally? Internally what my each row looks like. That we can tell. Let's say that if you have a query where you are doing a stress, means all the objects, all the objects. All the fields of a particular entity. Okay, then you can do user details.class. If you have like a specific field like field one {comma} field two {comma} field three, then you can use object array. Okay? So, whatever your each row looks like you can add it here. Okay, so currently my here in this demo I'm using select a stress for now. So, for a stress is like since this we is we are talking about entity, so all entity you it's let's say user detail entity. So, each row is my user detail. Okay? So, now I have created the criteria query. Now from this criteria query I have actually have to create everything. Let's say select from where order by having. So, that I have to do. So, from this criteria query I am doing first like from which table. So, table name we have to give right? From which table it has to fetch the record. So, from this table I have to fetch the record. Okay? So, now the first table. So, it is possible right? From table one join let's say table two. So, this table one which is first one right? It is always known as root. The first one is also always known as root. Okay? So, now I have added the from clause. It is here in the root. Now I have to also like select either one row or multiple rows whatever. So, I am using criteria query, the same query. select user. Okay? Select all the fields of this table. Okay? So, first I told you, right? This user represent the first table. So, criteria query.select. If you have a specific fields, you can do criteria query.multiselect. And whatever the fields, like user.field1, {comma} user.field2, like this. But here I want all the fields, that's why I put user and I've used select, which is equivalent to select asterisk. So, okay, I have done this. I have done this from. Now, I have to use where. So, criteria query.where. Now, I'm adding a where clause. Now, in this where clause, I have to add condition. So, condition is here predicate. So, now I am creating a predicate. So, predicate is created here is like criteria builder. Criteria builder helps in creating a predicate. Criteria builder.equals. There are multiple methods. I will tell you. So, I want to like phone number equals to whatever the phone number is coming. You can make it dynamic, like if phone number is present, then only do this. Otherwise, don't do it. Okay? So, currently I am just writing like criteria builder.equals whatever the field name in the table you have. So, my this table, user table, like the first root table, user.get. This is the field. Okay? This is your entity field name, not table DB column name, entity field name. Maybe in DB it is known as phone underscore number, but actually in entity Java it is known as phone. Okay? So, I'm using that name. So, this object user.getphone, {comma} phone number which is coming from the input parameter. So, criteria builder.equal. So, it is like a condition. It is making like phone equals to the phone number which is coming. It is creating a condition. And I'm using that condition and putting into this via clause. So, with this I have also created a via clause. I don't want order by having and all. So, now I my criteria is done. So, I am using an entity manager create query. Now, I am creating a query out of it. Type query. Okay? So, I'm creating a type query out of it. Whatever the criteria query comes, I generated a query type query out of it which can be now executed. So, here JPA might have done some mapping or you can say that some translation what we have written and it gives us a type query. Now, this query directly can be written run I run get result list. Means return me more than what this query can return more than one row. So, that's why I use this and accept it into a list and return. Okay. So, just see this example. I have like select this from user details. So, these are the data present into currently my DB. 120 120 110. Three records. 1 2 3. Okay. I am trying to hit a get API. Phone number I am passing is 120 in the controller. 120 I am passing and the same 120 goes here. So, ultimately it it should do phone number equals to this one. So, I should only get the list of output where phone number matches to 120. So, here I will get only this two where 120 matches. Okay? And if you see the query, it is select kind of an asterisk, all the fields, from this is all my root, where clause, this is the predicate, and which is get it there. Okay? So, one question comes to my mind, right? Okay, in this predicate generation, cb.equals, what are different things we can do? So, here if you see, these all things we can do. cb.equal, like whatever the field from the table you want, then the value. Okay? So, generally any condition is like field equals to something, 1 2 3, field like So, this is the first field name, right? So, and the field name is from your root or table. So, it is check for equality where phone equals to 123. This is your condition. Then you have cb.not equal, field and the value, it would be like phone not equals to 123. Then cb.gt, which is greater than, like field and the value, phone greater than, greater than equals to, lt, less than, less than equals to. So, these are there in the comparison operator. Okay? Then we have logical operator. Logical operator means like cb.and, so like you have something like condition one and condition two. So, it also has this, criteria builder.and, predicate one, {comma} predicate two, condition one, {comma} condition two. So, like phone equals to 123 and name is like something like this SJ. So you have this is my condition predicate one. This is my predicate two and we are now just you combining it. Similarly CB.or, CB.not. It's not negation. So here if you see, I am creating predicate one. Criteria builder.equals phone this one. So it is one condition. I am creating another condition criteria builder not equals name AA. This is second. I have to now club it. So CB.and I club it and it will become my this predicate. And then I use put it into the where clause. Similarly string operations you have like CB.like also you have. This one you can use it like field name and how you wanted it. CB.not like So it's all very straightforward like this guy has all the possible where things which we can have like it has that. Like CB.in, CB.not Okay. So in it's a collection, right? CB.in user that get phone like in you will have like what all the possible values it can come here. So value.11.7. You can put anything. Okay? So similarly like you can use it not in. So here I will show you one example how to do select multiple fields. Okay, I till now I have shown you like select asterisk one but for the same criteria API you can do this. So first step we know we have to create a criteria builder object because this is ultimately used to be used to create everything. So criteria builder I used it to create a criteria query but here this one is like what each row would look like. So my each row would look like object array because field one {comma} field two {comma} field three. It could be a string, it could be long, it could be int, something. So, it's object array. Then, so this my second part is done. Then, the third one is like from my table one. Table one is known as root generally here. So, root whatever the table one. So, criteria query {dot} from, this is my table. Then, I have to putting a select like whatever all the fields. So, here I am using now criteria query multi-select because I can have not extras, I can have multiple fields. So, from this table user, I can have like whatever the fields I wanted to fetch. Then, I created a predicate, which is nothing but a condition and I put into the where clause. I created a type query out of this entity manager, pass this query and run it. Now, output would look like object array because this is what I told. My each row would look like this. So, and result list will return the list not one. So, list of each row would look like this. And I'm doing a mapping in the user DTO. Like object array first is a string, second is phone and in the new DTO pass like this and return it. Very simple. Okay? And it is also possible to do joining also. So, nothing much differ. So, here if you see, we have like from table one then you have like join whether inner join, left join, table two. Okay? And here in this we don't need on and something because we it is like a JPQL, it is on entity. So, it knows that this entity is related with this column. So, the same thing. I created a criteria builder. I created a criteria query out of this criteria builder and each row is looks like this because multi select I might be doing it. My table one from clause is this user details. So and the first table is known as root here. So this is my first table. Now I am joining my first table dot join. What type of join? Join type is inner. Either here you can have also write left right right join. And which table you want to join? User address. So here again if you open the user detail entity class Okay, there would be like at the rate one to one mapping and the field user address is the another entity. There whatever the field name I have right, I use that only. I am not using the table name of that user address. Okay, entity has a relationship. So this is the field name in the user details one to one mapping. Okay, so this root table first table dot join with this user address I want to do inner join. So it will like this it will come. Join your table one and this would be considered your table two generally. Means or I would say that since we are talking entity one entity two. Okay. So now from is done this join query is done. Now we have to do select. Now I have to do multiple right? Each row is look like object array so multiple select. Criteria query dot multi select. So one field I want from user root table. User dot get name. Second from the let's say from address table I want this city only. So this is my represent like a second entity join second table. So address dot get city. Then it's a predicate condition you added. You create a type query run it. Since it's an object array you have to do a mapping and return it. That's all. Okay, so this is as simple as it is. And paginations and sortings is also very much but not that complicate but here one thing is like we all have to add it like in the hierarchy if you see we have to use this methods to for the paginations. So here if you see this is how you can do. Criteria builder object, I created a criteria query. Now I am want select asterisk. Each row is my complete details. Okay, so user details I have added from clause. There is no join. I put select asterisk. All columns of user details select is like all column of this. Predicate, this is my condition where clause I have added into that. Now after this where clause I need to do sortings. Okay, so criteria query also has order by. So order by now you have to like which field. Okay, so whether descending this field should be descending increasing whatever. So you can find a field name like this user.get root right user.get whatever the field. And criteria builder offers like dot descending dot increasing. So you can use that order by name descending it will translate to this. And for paginations, once you get the type query now type query has this two method. Set first result which is kind of an offset page number maximum result what is each page going to look like and ultimate run it. So if you understand that hierarchy right criteria query is very simple right? All is like methods we have to end with. Okay, so if you see this like exactly same descending order and five. Like one page is five. I'm sending page zero five.
