=== NamedNativeQuery and SqlResultSetMapping (380s - 716s) ===

SQL result set mapping annotation, which is used with at the rate name native query annotation. They both are used together. And the second way we I will it's an object array that we will see. So, let's see the first one. Very easy. Nothing much. Now, let's say that I have created one DTO. All the specific fields which I'm expecting in the user query which is going to run, I have written it here. I have a constructor which is accepting the fields and getter setter for this one. Okay? So, I I I'm expecting only username and phone. That's all. Only these two fields I've written in the DTO. Okay? Now, in your entity class, in your entity user detail entity class, we have to first write native named named native query. We have already seen, right? Named query in JPQL, right? Uh so, there is something called named native query. Okay? So, first thing is name. Just provide any name, whatever you want to give. Provide a name to your query. Second is that write a proper query. Plain SQL. Select only two fields, one and two. Whatever the fields you are expecting, write a proper plain query. Okay? That is the in the query field. The third one is result set mapping. Whatever the result is coming, username and phone, it is getting mapped to what? So, now here the second thing part comes into the picture. SQL result set mapping. So, whatever the field output is coming from the above query, we have to now do a mapping and for that we are using SQL result set mapping. Its name is I have given user DTO mapping and the same name is used here in the above one. So, now what happened is here if you see what ultimately I am doing here is I told that hey, whatever the result you are getting, username and phone, pass it to the user DTO constructor and pass it in this sequence. The username first, second parameter is phone. My first parameter is username, second is phone. Okay, in this sequence it pass. So, what internally it will do is whatever the query which you are running and the result which you are getting, okay, then it will invoke this mapping which is annotated with SQL result set mapping. Okay, and here with this syntax, okay, constructor result, which target class? User DTO class. So, it will create an object of this. Okay, and the value it will pass is this one, username and phone. First parameter would be username and phone. So, this is how we are mapping it. And this named native query and result set mapping SQL result set mapping is always used above an entity. Above let's say I've used our user detail. So, now in the user repository, you don't have to write like above @query and the full query name. We can do simply @query and the name. Whatever the query name you have to run like we have already seen previously in the named query. So, I given this name, run this query. And I've told that it's a native query to true, so expect it to be a native named native query. Expect it to be a named native query. Okay, so I've just given a name. Then this query will run. It will do a internally mapping, and this mapping would be used where it will create an object of user DTO, and whatever the field it is coming, it will pass like this. So, this is first way of doing a mapping when you are not returning asterisk, all the fields. The second way is manual mapping. Manual mapping in the sense is that I am writing the same like SQL query before. Write our native query equals to true, so like a plain SQL query, I'm returning username and phone. Now here, if you see, I am not returning user details. I am returning object array. So, list of object array. So, list of object array. List of object array. In the object array, it's of two size. First is username {comma} phone. Then second also is username {comma} phone, username {comma} phone. Like this, it will come. So, in the service class, when you are invoking the repository this method, you are getting a output as list of object array. You have to do map mapping. So, here I am doing a mapping. So, I'm using a stream. Okay. Uh if you don't know about the stream, at the top I'm sharing the Java uh stream where I've already explained it properly. So, check it if you don't know it. But, this is simple, right? All the result which I'm getting, iterate over it. Okay, now I'm mapping it. I'm creating an object of user DTO. First one I am passing as a name, and second one I'm passing to the this constructor second parameter like this. And I am collecting into a list. Okay, ultimately I'm result uh sending the list of user DTO. Because I'm creating an object of user DTO. So, this is the way of manual mapping through object array if you don't want to use SQL result set mapping. But if you have a scenario where you can directly use asterisk, then you don't need all this. You can directly return the entity. JPA will automatically take care of mapping the DB column names to a entity field name. Okay? Now, there is one more
