=== Dynamic Native Query (716s - 1108s) ===

advantage of native queries dynamic native query. In the JPQL, there is nothing like a dynamic JPQL. Okay, we will see that. There is a different name. There is no like dynamic JPQL. There is a different name criteria API. But there is something called dynamic native query. How it's used? In the dynamic native query, now repository is not into the picture. Okay, in the service class itself, we are using entity manager now. Okay, now let's say that you have a scenario that okay, in my where clause, I have to dynamically put the conditions. Like let's say if user is passing name, then only I have to put a name condition. Name, let's say equals to whatever user is passing. If user is not passing name into the parameter, I don't want to add this also. So, I don't want to fix my query that where condition one, condition two, condition three. Okay, might be I have in some cases I have only condition two and three. In some cases only condition two. Only in some cases all three. So, dynamically you have to manage your query. How you can do that? So, here in this one, in the service class, let's say you have this method. Okay, and let's say whatever you are the input fields are coming into the parameter method parameter. So, it's a normal string builder. So, first I'm creating a normal string builder. Okay, so here if you see new string builder, I have written a plain SQL query. I'm just appending from user details, like DB query only. I I'm also doing joining. I've also appending where one equals to one. This is just a dummy because I can add dynamically more query. Let's say if zero is added, at least I have where clause present. So, one equals to one is why you might be thinking why I'm doing this. Let's say that if I'm not doing this, then you have to be like, "Okay, condition one I have to add." Then you have to put like first where. Okay, with condition one. Then condition Let's say condition one is false. It's not even like name is not there. So, the condition one I don't have to add. Then you have to always take care that okay, where is properly set or not. Okay? And if let's say that no condition is matched, then okay, where should not even come. So, with all this complexity, this help us, like we where one equals to one, right? It will automatically save us from this one. So, yeah. So, where one equals to one. Now, all we have to do is if any more condition added, so we just do either and or or, whatever we wanted. Or if no condition added, then also our query is perfect. Okay, so one thing is added. Now, dynamically adding the condition. So, one thing is let's say that I'm passing a username just for demo purpose. Username not equals to null and username is not empty. Means I want to put the condition. So, I'm putting appending the query builder. It's a string, right? So, I'm just adding and username equals to question mark. Okay? So, this question mark later has to be filled up. Okay? So, what would be the So, that's why I'm creating a list of parameters. List of parameter will store into a sequence. So, for each question mark in the list of parameter, I am restoring that what uh it has to be filled with. So, parameter.add username, whatever the username it is coming into this one. Okay. Now, let's say you have uh like this if else, you have multiple if else, so multiple question mark and multiple value you have to add into that. You have added into this parameter. You have done that. After that, what you have to do is we have to use an entity manager. Create native query, and you pass the stringbuilder.toString. What it will do is it will give us a query object. Now, at this point of time, your string builder this get converted to this query object. Which will look like this. Okay? Here, uh still question mark is not yet replaced with this your actual values. Now, you have the query. Now, what is the second thing we have to do is execute it. Okay. So, before execution, we have to now fill this question mark. So, generally, what it does is in this I'm iterating over the list of this parameters. Okay? I'm iterating over this each question mark. Right? Native query.setParameter. Okay? Now, what it will do is it will start Let's say you have three. In your query, you have three question marks. So, it's start with like one, two, three position like this. So, for each question mark, because uh for loop is started with zero, because in the list, whatever the parameter is starting from zero, right? But, this question mark internally, it is JPA concept from like one, two, three. Okay? So, for each question mark, we have to put a proper parameter. We have to take out from the parameter list and fill it up. And now, once your query is properly built up, all you have to do is get result list. It will return you a list of result. Okay? So, now here if you see that I am my output is like specific fields which I'm querying. Okay? So, I am accepting into an object of array. Now, you can do mapping like okay, zero would map to this field, one would be mapped to that field. That upon us. That we can do the mapping and return it. But, the main point here dynamic native query I want to tell you that you can even write complex queries which are dynamic in nature in the where clauses. So, you can write like this. But, here you have to do lot of work. Okay? First of all, you are creating a string builder, then you are creating a parameter list, right? All then you are taking the responsibility of replacing those parameter list into a question mark, then you are executing it, then you are doing proper mapping, and then return it. So, that is one thing. But, pagination and sorting I will also tell
