=== Native Query (0s - 380s) ===

Hey guys, Sean this side. Welcome to Concept and Coding. And let's just start without wasting any time. So, till now we have already seen about JPQL. Now, let's see about native query. So, what is native query? Native query is nothing but a plain SQL queries. Directly interact with database. Thus, if in future DB changes, code changes also required. Means that since now you are writing a queries which are DB dependent, right? Direct plain SQL queries we are writing. So, in future, let's say you are changing from MySQL to another DB, definitely you have to change the queries, too. No caching. Now, we are not using JPA functionality. We are directly writing plain queries. So, no caching like persistent context which you were using like. And also no life cycle management of an entity happen. So, these are some of the you can say that points which has to be considered. Now, the question might comes to your mind then, "Hey, then why to use over JPQL itself?" So, there are certain requirements like you have to write more complex queries which in like JSONB. Like there are like a JSON column, right? In your table. And you have to query that. Today, JPQL do not support it. You can access it through native query. Even though you know that in the JPQL, everything is related with entity. Okay? Whatever the columns entity has, you can have either full entity, let's say user or user.field1, user.field2. But you cannot expect a result which is not there in an entity like count asterisk. You have to fetch it. Can you do with the JPQL? No, you can't do it. Or let's say that even if you have to write a join in which two entities are not related. Let's say entity one, entity two. They do not have any relation one to one, one to many, many to anything. So, with the JPQL, which is dependent on entity, like join is generally complicate. Okay? So, with native query, it's like how you support normally. Okay? Like you can directly do joining between unrelated entities also. That is also possible. Query efficiency in bulk operation. In JPQL, what happened is it entities are managed, right? By JPA, its life cycle is also managed, and also the cache is also updated. So, it has to keep persistence context updated, which is your caching, you can say that. L1 caching, right? So, it's little slower than the native, which directly works on the DB. So, native queries are little faster. So, depending upon which use case you fall, you have to go for either JPQL or native query. But, these are, you can say that, certain of the advantage and disadvantages of a native query. How you can write a native query? Very, very simple. You might have seen how we were writing a query of the JPQL at the rate query annotation, right? Value equals to write a plain SQL query. Just also add native query equals to true. Okay? So, now JPA understand that this is it has to consider it on a plain SQL query. Okay? Everything else is same, like how what we see in the JPQL. The same method way, like whatever the param you have to provide, it's like this same only, same like JPQL, no different. Only thing is just provide native query equals to true, and now you can use like a plain query. One thing, just see here that select asterisk from This is now not my entity. Not my entity, Java entity user detail. It is is actually table name. User this is my table name. Where this is the field is now actually my DB field name. Okay, maybe in the entity I have something name, but in DB I am saying it is as a user_name. So, in the native query all the things when you are writing a query, just write from the DB perspective. Okay, that's the only one point which you have to consider. So, now one question might have come to our mind by looking at this query. Okay, like the same JPQL, I have written this method and I have written above the query. When I have written select asterisk, how it knows that this asterisk should be like return type of user detail? Okay, because in JPQL we might have written you which like all the entity and it knows that it is an entity, so it will automatically mapped it. So, when all the fields like asterisk is used, okay? So, internally does the mapping between DB column name and entity field name. Right? So, whenever asterisk in the native query asterisk is used, right? So, whatever the from you are using, right? In this user detail repository, it will ultimately do a mapping. Right? Field by field. Okay, so uh you will get all the data, but what happened when you return the partial field? So, here if you see, now I'm returning partial fields. Select username and phone, only two fields. From user details where name equals to like this native query equals to true. Now, how it will do the mapping to this? Because we know that whenever we are using an asterisk, like it will do a mapping with this user detail itself. But, what about this? What if I use this only two fields? Will the JPA will do mapping? No. If you start try to test it, you will get an exception. Column user ID not found. It will not be able to map. Okay? In case you have only particular fields to be returned from the native query, you have to expec- explicitly take care of doing the mapping. Okay? So, that is one extra task is involved. Now, how we can do the mapping? There are two ways. One way is using the
