=== Multiple Consumer and 1 Topic Setup (3459s - 3814s) ===

in a group to join same topic. Okay, we have seen one joining multiple. Now it's like multiple consumer same topic. Okay, you can only tell which topic you want to subscribe, which partition you will be allotted. That is when you go with the subscribe model, it's not in your hand. Okay. Generally there are two model subscribe and assign. Subscribe is something you can say that uh mostly used. Okay. group coordinator has uh used the algorithm and you can say that allot the partition to you in the assign consumer tell hey I am interested in this partition but the problem is that you have to manually then do polling and all I think that's not my intention I've never used assign but here if you are going with the assign you have to manage everything but since we are using a spring boot we want everything to be abstracted and So when we are using spring boot everything is abstracted. So within abstraction it use subscribe. Okay. But if you have to do it by yourself you can also have a chance to do assign. You can assign particular partition to you. But hardly I don't think anybody write this framework code by themselves and do this. So if you're using framework I think it's all subscribe. So you it's which partition not in your hand. So all we have to is they subscribe to the same topic and individual different partitions of the same topic need to be assigned to them. How to do that? So one thing is like I'm creating consumer like how you are doing this here Kafka consumer topic is order event. What this will do? This will create you know that one Kafka listener means one consumer. Okay. And they will subscribe to order events. But our requirement is we need multiple consumers subscribe to this. Then in application.properties there is something called spring.cafka.lister.conurrency equals to whatever you want to provide 2 3 4 whatever. So again this flow I'm coming to you. So when you have created a bean of this concurrent Kafka listener when this you scan the Kafka listener for each Kafka listener concurrent Kafka listener container factory you can say that creates a consumer but when you have defined this configuration listener do. Concurrency equals to three let's say. So this configuration is or you can say that this property is ultimately seted to this one this bean while creation of this bean this concurrency equals to three set. So here if you see in the configuration so let's say this is concurrent one right here I can set it has this field factory dot concurrency set concurrency okay so if you are manually creating it you can set it like this otherwise if you are not manually creating this beans uh then if you are provided into the application property this gets set into this. Okay. And when it will create this Kafka consumer object if it see that hey whatever the uh by default it is one. Okay. So if you have provided more than one it will create that number of Kafka consumer. So now in this case what it will do is that since we are provided let's say concurrency three okay it will not create one consumer it will create three consumers all reading to the this all subscribing to this topic which partition is allotted that group coordinator will decide. Got it? So with this you can say that part two of consumer setup is done where we have gone one level more deeper. Now in part three what I wanted to show you that if you remember we have multiple steps till step 13 in the consumer read flow. So each step what all the possibilities can come or you can say the doubts can come. Okay, for example, when you read or when you do poll or like one example I showed you, right? During poll, uh if you have multiple broker, broker one, broker two, the consumer will send the request. So what if one broker fails? What it didn't send the request? So like all this possible scenario on each step what all thing only important one I will go how to handle those. So all the possible doubts and all the possible solutions. Okay. So in the part three that I will cover and in the part four exception handling. Okay. So this is also very important. So with that our consumer would like foolproof. Okay. And after that we will proceed further on different topics. But yes this is very critical. I don't want to skip those. But still if you have any doubt in this topic let me know. We can discuss further. And again sorry for going little slow because I want this to be super clear. Okay guys, bye.
