=== 1 Consumer Multiple Topic Setup (Approach2- Auto Mapping) (2285s - 2456s) ===

the auto mapping now. So producer is doing what? So our producer is doing that sending the object. So it is sending order order event. It is sending payment event. Okay. And since it is object so definitely type id is also coming in the header now in the consumer what is happening keep in mind the the flow which we have seen so everything is same the key value dializer is JSON now since it is JSON dializer I have multiple ways so one which I am using is mapping so I'm providing the mapping that specifically I'm providing. So whatever the type ID it will so whenever this event is published it will add a type ID in its event. When this event is published it will add a type ID with also for this event. So I'm adding a mapping comma separated. So com.eda.producer domodel. So this is from which is present into type ID header. Convert it to this one. Map it to this one. And you can say that com.ed.consumer. So this this class is present into consumer class path. Similarly com.eda.producer when this comes map it to this one. Okay. So this here if you can this pojo's order and the payment is present into consumer class path and default you can keep it. Okay. because uh default is required whenever we have a JSON dializer. Now here what I'm doing I am writing a Kafka listener. So one consumer our requirement was one consumer multiple topics right? So same here nothing difference like how we were doing manually topic one topic two I'm interested in I'm reading the consumer record itself. Okay. So here if you see a string I'm getting this string. Now order events I am checking equals topic if topic is equal order events here if you see I don't need to do the mapping itself I am just doing a type cast from this value to the order that's all. Similarly when your topic is payment event I am not doing JSON mapping everything that would be done by JSON digitalizer now okay with the help of this all I'm doing is just type casting record dot value to this okay
