=== 1 Consumer Multiple Topic Setup (Approach1- Manual Mapping) (611s - 978s) ===

consumer request to join more than one topic. We have seen one consumer one topic. Now one consumer multiple topic. So this is the scenario. So we have a consumer group. We have a consumer. Now we have two topic order event and payment event. And now this consumer has to join or subscribe this topic. Okay. How to do that? So generally when consumer subscribe to a topic which partition will it get it is not in it's you can say that hands it's generally you can say that decided by an algorithm which group coordinator might decide but it only say that hey I am interested in this topic. Now whichever the partition is allotted to it, it has to take care of it. So in this example I have just taken that this topic has only one partition P 0 and payments event topic has only one partition P 0. Let's say for simplicity we have to do this setup. So what is the first approach? The first approach very simple is manually taking care of JSON to object mapping. Okay. So now here if you see that in the first approach in application.properties properties everything is same port the group okay um this is the group the bootstrap server this is everything same the important is key d serializer and value d serializer let's say key d serializer is a string the same now even though the producer is sending the value as and serialize as JSON. But here consumer I am taking the value as a string decalizer. Okay. So whatever the JSON it will send I am taking considering as a string for now because I want to manually do the mapping because events are coming from order from payment. So this JSON whether it has to be type cast to let's say or do a mapping from this JSON to order event or you can say that order class or payment class in which one it has to do that I will decide manually. So in the value d serializer the first thing I have done put is string tree serializer. So here now we will get as a JSON in a string format. Now in the Kafka listener what is our requirement? One consumer multiple topics it need to subscribe right so in the Kafka listener we can provide a list of topic this consumer is interested in. You know that for each Kafka listener one consumer is created and it has a topics. So we can provide list like this. So here you can see that I'm providing a list that this consumer is interested in order events, payment hyphen events. So it is subscribing to this two. Okay. And now the method here if you see the method which I am expecting here is consumer record the complete. So this is your key and this is your value. So now here if you see in the while loop. Okay. So internally it here it invokes the Kafka listener method. Okay. This is the place right for each record. So here I am expecting the complete consumer record itself. Hey send me the complete record itself and consumer record itself. I will take care of the mapping. So I'm expecting each consumer record and consumer record has this two key and the value. So both are a string is string. Key is also a string and the value is also a string. So now what I'm doing is this record has all the information. record has topic information, partition information. You can take out the key, you can take out the value, you can take out the header, everything. Okay? So, I'm just checking if order event dot equals record dot topic. So, if topic is order event, I am manually doing the mapping from JSON to object. So I have auto wired the object mapper and just doing dot read value whatever the value I am getting JSON convert it map it to order.class class. Now I'm got this else if if record dot topic whatever the event this record is there if its topic is payment event I am mapping this record value to payment class okay so manually I am taking care of mapping JSON to object mapping okay and remember that when we are using a string string d serializer you don't need default type and itself. I already told you default type is only required when you have a value dializer as JSON because it has to convert from JSON to object. But since we have a string D serializer, it doesn't have to convert it. So we don't need default type. Okay. So here this is how we can take the full responsibility of converting or you can say that mapping from JSON to a specific object based on the topic. Okay,
