=== 1 Consumer 1 Topic setup (0s - 611s) ===

come back. So in the part one of consumer setup we have done basic like what I believe is if you have gone through that video you should be able to set up a consumer which read from the topic that was the intention of the part one but now in the part two we going to go one level deeper okay and I will go little slow and with also demo because this is critical Our consumer is you can say that very critical in the sense that there are different use cases like one consumer reading one topic, one consumer reading multiple topic, multiple consumer reading multiple topic, multiple consumer reading like one topic. There are different use cases. So how to set up things? Okay. And after that there are also like exception handling and everything. So this is something which we have to be very much clear because lot of things asked and while you are working lot of work need to be done on the consumer side. So let's start. Till now in basic consumer setup we have seen how to create a consumer and how it can read from a topic. But now you can ask what if one consumer request to join more than one topic because in this the basic setup what we have set up is one consumer reading one topic. Okay let's say if in one topic there are three partition. So all three partitions are assigned to this consumer. So question might have come to you. What if one consumer request to join more than one topic? How to do that? Multiple consumer in a group request to join different different topics. Multiple consumer in a group request to join same topic. Okay. If these three are clear now then after if any other possible use cases you can think of we can easily do that. Okay, so let's start. So just a quick recap in basic consumer setup what we have done is very very simple. We have written one Kafka listener. Okay. And in that we have provided topic which topic this consumer need to subscribe and the method which is actually the business logic. Now here we have application.property property file in that we have provided bootstrap server the group id this consumer belongs to which group that we have defined the key serializer and the value not serializer d serializer the key d serializer value d serializer okay and the default type this is only important when your value d serializer is JSON okay because in that time uh Kafka need to know that okay this JSON decentralizer from which JSON to which object I need to convert to so at least it need one default okay so we have done this basic setup and what we have seen this before is this flow why I'm going through this again is because this flow is going to play a very important role in understanding all these three uh items which we have seen. Okay. So quickly do a recap that what the flow was. So when you start the application the spring boot application two two beans first it will set up one is consumer factory inside this consumer factory we have all the application.properties properties information regarding consumer it has after that it create a bean of concurrent Kafka listener container factory and this consumer factory bean is put inside this one so you can say that this is a wrapper of this consumer factory after that enable Kafka generally we don't write it it's automatically added by spring boot so what it does is it will scan the Kafka listener annotation And for each Kafka listener okay it make use of this concurrent Kafka listener container to create one Kafka listener container bean and when this bean is created internally it create one Kafka consumer which keeps on doing poll. Okay. So you can say that in simple for each Kafka listener one Kafka consumer is created which continuously do the polling in a simple way. Okay. So what exactly happened is that let's say we have a topic order events which has three partition P 0, P1 and P2. So with the above basic consumer setup what we have achieved is we have created one consumer group with the name order consumer hyphen group. Okay. And we have created one consumer. This consumer is subscribed to which topic order events through this. Now since we have only one consumer in this group. If this topic has three partition, all the three partition would be assigned to this consumer. Okay. So this is what we have done. Now one more thing is internally when we are doing consumer.pole. Okay. So now in this one this consumer is assigned three partition. Now assume that for this topic it has three partition and let's say partition zero leader broker is B1 partition one leader broker is B2 and for partition two leader broker is B1 okay so broker one is leader of partition zero and partition two and broker two is leader of partition one let's say now this consumer has to pull the events from partition zero, partition one, partition two, right? Because since this consumer gra group has only one consumer, it has to take care of all the partitions. So I told you that each Kafka consumer has this pole loop. So let's say this is the loop. Okay, while true and it is continuously do the polling. Let's see. So this is conceptual like what happening within the pole. So many time what we think is that so it first go for partition zero it fetch the data then it goes to the partition two it fetch the events and then partition one then it fetch the events but no this is not how the flow is. So what generally happen is inside the poll if you go what happen is for each broker. So currently there are two brokers for each broker this consumer has opened one connection. Okay. And on that connection it send the fetch request. Okay. So this broker one is leader of partition zero and partition two. So this consumer send only one request to the broker one and ask hey send me the events for partition zero and partition two. Okay and your fetch request is look like hey this is the topic this is the partition zero and this is the offset I want to read. Similarly for this topic this partition this is the offset I am interested in. So it do not create or do not send multiple request. So for each broker only one request is sent and whatever the topic whatever the partition this broker is leader of. Okay. So this consumer ask in one request itself. Similarly it will send one request to the broker two and say that okay hey broker two you are the leader of partition one. I need to fetch data of it. Sendmate. So it send two requests not three. After that broker one send the response. broker to send the response. What it will do is that this consumer merge the response of all the brokers. Okay, whatever the so this response it merges consumer records. So now here this is conceptually how the consumer records looks like. So consumer records internally has individual records like topic order event partition P 0. So let's say that broker one has return partition P 0 and partition P2 data. So partition P 0 has consumer record consumer record let's say two. So each event or each record you can say that it's a consumer record which has offset value key header information etc. Similarly topic partition P1 it's consumer record individual. Similarly topic partition the consumer records. So it create one output after merging all the broker output. Okay. And then it iterate over this record individually. First this, first this, then this, then this, then this. Likewise. Okay. So this is clear in the basic setup. What we have done is now our first thing is how to set up one
