=== JSON Deserialization flow (1226s - 2285s) ===

which is very important and before I'll show you the code how to do that we need to understand JSON serializer and JSON d serializer flow very very important because this is the place where many engineer get confused okay and this is the place where I can say that lot of gap exist without that auto mapping is like would become very tough like hey why it is working now why it is not working like like this kind of scenario can come okay let's see the flow JSON dialization flow I need to tell you but let's start from the producer and again one more thing when we are talking about automapping so see this this mapping thing right it's all comes when we have to convert from JSON to object when our value is JSON serializer DS serializer If it is not JSON, if it is a string and all then this all things is not comes into the picture because we don't have to convert JSON to object and all. But in real world most of the scenario it's always value is mostly mostly JSON uh serializer DS serializer. Okay, because uh it's always an object but if it is not an uh JSON serializer or DS serializer if it is a string it's like this straightforward. Maybe you don't have to do this mapping also. Okay. Okay. Now let's just start from the producer at producer side during JSON serialization what we were doing. Okay. If you see we you I hope you have already seen the producer setup and producer internals. So we have autowired Kafka template is string and order. So this is key which is a string and value is order. Okay, this is the object Kafka template and this is how we are sending the event. Okay, this is the topic. This is your key. This is your value in application.properties. We have so many properties in uh for the producer. The main here for the over is uh serializer. So key serializer here is our string string serializer and value is here we have object so JSON serializer so value serializer is JSON important thing spring.cafka.producerproperties spring.json add type header add.type do header is true. This is by default. We don't have to do this is by default true only. Okay. So I just add it here to tell you that this is by default true. Even though you don't write it, it's present. And why? What is the importance of this type header? So see the name type header. So since our value is object. Okay. So type header means when you publish an event it will add a type id in the header which has like the path of your class. So this order let's say uh this is my value right. So it will put its path com. EDA.producer.mmodel dot order. Okay. So it's in the type id field within a header. It add the class path. Okay. But you might be thinking, hey, in the producer setup, okay, uh you are saying this by default is true. So we haven't added it. So definitely it's true only because we haven't made it false in producer setup and all. And all the demo which we have seen, we have seen that header keys uh generally like empty. This is what we have seen till now. Okay. But what I am saying right now is that hey this by default is true and whenever we are sending an object okay means it's a JSON serializer we are using it it add a type ID which has the class path of the class whichever we are using here for the value. So it should be if you see our logs it should be like header key type id is present it should be like this but till now what we have seen our header keys is empty why see I it's not always 100% sure that producer will always add type ID okay this is what it says that by default type header is true so it should add it should add a type ID into the header which has this class path. Okay, but it's not I would say that 100% true. Why? And I will tell you the specific use case. So when you try with this string order is specific if you specify the exact uh I would say that the class order and if you try it you will see that header type is empty but if you replace it with string object okay you don't specify a specific class okay then you will notice that it will add a type ID in the header So it is internal to producer I would say that but for us I would say we have to be uh clear that okay by default this config is true and if this config is true and we are using JSON serializer it will add a type ID okay this is for now we can say that but again I'm saying you it's not always 100% true always verify whether it is adding or not because this is one use case I'm telling you there could be more use case which it might not be adding so one use case is if you provide a direct class it might not add like we have seen it previously but if you replace it with like generic object okay then you will see that it is adding type ID so first thing is clear that producer is adding the type ID. Let's set uh let's do that. Okay. So here in our scenario producer let me check what here. So send with key we have seen that right I have object here. Okay. So if we go what partition let me see what partition it has published. Partition P 0. Okay. So now we can check the partition P 0 for the payment and for for payment also right for payment also uh partition P 0. So we can check partition P 0 whether it would be broker one or broker two we can check both okay broker one we got the data. So header key is type ID. Similarly, we can check the order - events. order - events. We can check type ID is present. Okay. And like I have previously showed you all the demo of the producer where we were directly using this specific order class, the type ID was missing. You can test it. I have tested it. you can also test it from your side. Uh but with respect to the time I am saying that uh this is the behavior you going to see. Okay. So when you clean everything and just try to use order you will see that empty header ID. Okay. Like this. But now when we are using object the type ID is coming. Okay. So that's why I said it's not always 100% true that uh when it when this config is true it will and you have a JSON serializer it will always come. Okay. Now let's see the consumer side the des serializer side. So at producer side we are saying that type ID can come or cannot come. Okay, only two scenarios. So what happened at the consumer side? So for each Kafka consumer record, for each record means for each event we have bytes plus header. Okay. So each event we have header also. Header information also comes. Okay. So what it what's the flow? So this flow is very important. Understand this flow because this is where many confusion comes. The first for each event the first it goes to the is JSON D serializer or not. Okay, it will check in application.properties of consumer we have set the value D serializer right. So if it is only JSON then only this flow matters otherwise this flow doesn't even matter. I already told you this is all specific for JSON serializer decalizer only. If it is a JSON d serializer. Yes. What consumer will do? It will check is below config true or false. So which config? Use type header. Okay. What we are saying that hey in the event we also get the header do you want to use it or not? We have a two true or false. By default it is true but we can also make it false. So if you make it false where it goes it goes to your default type config. Okay. So if you remember in the consumer we also have default type config. Right. So it will use that and then it will do decentralization from JSON to the one which you have provided in the default and after that it will invoke your Kafka listener method. Okay. So this flow is clear right and the default type config which I'm talking about is here. If you open the consumer application.properties properties which we have already set up here. This is what I'm talking about default type. Okay. So if you're not using header and uh it will make use of this default type. So this class it will try to convert your JSON to this class object and then ultimately it invoke this Kafka listener method. where it goes. Yeah. So this false flow is clear, right? When use type header is false. But now let's say if you are not even using this, so by default it is true or you have specifically mentioned true. By default it is true. So means you have to listen to the header. Now in the header two possibilities, right? Type ID is present or type ID is not present. So if it is not present it again goes to this only. It make use of default and do the decentralization JSON to object whatever the type we have defined whatever the class path and then call the Kafka listener method invoke but if type ID is present okay if type ID is present like let's say in the type ID let's say this is present in type ID it's present com dotproducer dot order hey this value this bite let's say or this JSON you can say is of you need to so it you can say that producer is sending the information this JSON which I have created it's from that's comproducer dot order class okay so it has given us this information now there are two things we can do it will check hey mapping present yes or no what is this mapping So this is one configuration very important configuration spring. Kafka dot consumer.properties dot spring.json.type dot mapping type mapping type dot mapping. So here we can have like from two. So from is like whatever the type ID class path hey this from this class path convert it to this. So you are specifically telling to the JSON decentralizer that this type ID you can convert it from this to this. Okay. So if mapping is present use it decentralize from the JSON okay and convert it to the object like type ID from this to this. So this object would be used here and then it will invoke the Kafka method. Kafka uh listener method but what if this mapping is not present okay or you can say that uh mapping is present so it's a comma separated you can have mapping right you can have so many mapping here it's you can say that it's a comma separated okay then after that you can have so many so let's say if this config is not even present or in this uh list this type ID mapping is not present in that scenario So what JSON decentralizer will try to do is it will try to decentralize JSON to object. Now which object it will try this but there is a security risk. Okay. What if hacker put it's uh some fake class path com.hacker dot order let's say. So JSON decentralizer will try to load this class to convert from JSON to object. It will try to load this class. So this is risky. That's why whenever mapping is not present, it will check for trusted package. So trusted packages like this configuration spring. Kafka do.consumer.properties spring.json.rusted.packages. So you can provide a comma separated. So this package I am trust. com do.t producer. This package I trust means any class within this package approve it. Okay. So in type id what I'm getting is com.producer.t orderer. In trusted it will see that hey I have com.producer. Yes this class will get approved. Okay. Or you can also put trusted.package equals to asteris means approve everything. Okay. But if in the trusted package this is not present com.producer dot order is specific like if this is not passed through from this trusted package it will throw illegal argument exception not in trusted package. But let's say that we have defined trusted.package com.producer. Okay. So when this class will come it will pass through. Yes. Now what uh JSON dieselizer will try to do? It will try to load this class. So now it will check class existence consumer path or not because see you have let's say consumer repo. So this class com.producer.order should be present into consumer also right? So it should be able to load. If it not able to load class not found exception. If it able to load it will convert the JSON to this object and invoke Kafka listener method. So go through this flow again because this is critical because this is where all the whatever the combination you do one consumer multiple topic and all this flow going to help you. Okay. And this is where many many you can say that gaps are present which if you understand the flow those will get clarified. Now this flow is clear. Let's move to
