=== Demo of Auto Mapping (2456s - 2696s) ===

let's test this now so our producer no change it is still producing the type ID So in our consumer we have to change now. So listener so we don't need this listener we need a listener this and there is one change is that we are using JSON dializer okay we are using JSON dializer so this cannot be a string this cannot be a string it's an object here it's an object here so in the auto mapping it's an object here. So our Kafka listener one consumer listening multiple events consumer record key and the value value is our JSON dializer. Okay. So and since we can have multiple events of different type so that's why I used object here if topic is equals order event just type cast it and print it out this similarly type casted printed out this if it is this one all good let me check application.properties properties. Yeah, I need to change it to this one. JSON dializer. So, let's use this one. Okay, JSON dializer. I I am interested in header. Yes, that's why I commented out I am interested in header. Default type is needed now because we have a JSON digitalizer. So, default type is needed and mapping. So we want mapping also right. So this is the mapping for the one which I have okay so I have provided the mapping also. So this is our uh different lines right. So that's why I have added this one. Now here also if you see one thing is that when you provide a mapping you don't have to provide trusted package okay so I think this is clear right so many time if you see that they say hey why you are not providing trusted package or not so when the mapping is present yes this trusted package is not required so that's why I'm not adding any trusted package here So header is false. We are interested in the header. Okay. Uh value dializer is JSON dializers. Default type we needed it but mapping is provided. So it will never reach to the default itself. So all good. Now let me stop the consumer. Okay. And also in the listener everything is commented out right. So this listener commented out commented out. commented out only this our auto mapping listener is active. Okay, let me add double so that we know that our properly is getting invoked. So let me start the consumer run. So consumer is started. Let's publish first order. So with key was order - 2 and then payment hy - 2 bad request. So let's say what got changed - 2 payment created. So here if you see that our Kafka listener properly able to listen it this is very important. This flow is very important. Right? If that is clear after that now you will see that everything is very simple. So now our
