=== Multiple Consumer, Multiple Topic Setup (2696s - 3309s) ===

second thing is we want to set up multiple consumer in a group to join different topic. So now in a group I have consumer one consumer two they need to join different topic one is joining order event one is joining payment event approach one very simple two different consumer application okay like how in the basic setup we have set up right one consumer like you created two different application okay that is simple okay and in the kafka listener for one you can tell order event for other you can tell payment But in single application how we can do that again very simple if you understand this flow you know that for each Kafka listener for each Kafka listener one Kafka consumer object is created. If this flow is clear you know that what you have to do you have to create two Kafka listeners but I will show you with two ways. One is type ID plus mapping. Type ID plus mapping means producer is sending a type ID and consumer is doing the mapping means it is interested in the header and it is doing the mapping. How to do that? Another is header equals to fall. Consumer is not even listening to the header. Let's say then how to do that? Very interesting. So let's start first very simple we have seen the previous flow itself. So we need two consumer reading two different topic and we know that one Kafka listener one Kafka consumer. So I have created two Kafka listener. This Kafka listener means one consumer is subscribing to order event. This consumer will subscribe to payment event. Okay. So it is accepting the value order accepting the value payment and in application.properties properties what we want we are doing is mapping. Okay. So everything same group uh key dializer is string value is object JSON dializer. So we need default type but here I'm providing a mapping from this class of the producer whichever it is coming the type ID in the header map it to this consumer class. Similarly this map it to this and it works fine. This is the exact same what we have seen. Uh but now only here is now we have two consumer two different topics they are listening to. But this one is very interesting. Now we are because now we are reading this flow. Now we are going to this flow false one. Okay. Earlier we was checking this flow true. Now in when it is false what is the expectation? it check out the default type config and from the default type config it will convert JSON to object and then invoke the Kafka listener method. Now I guess by now itself you know what the problem you're going to get but yeah let's see so first thing first two consumer so I have created two Kafka listener one consumer is interested or subscribing to order event another consumer is subscribing to payment event and they have orders and the payment this is the whatever the value so that would uh like JSON to specific object and that object is only is sending value is only sending not the complete consumer record. Now in the application.properties properties. You might be thinking that okay everything same key dializer is string value is JSON so you need default type you added the default type now here use type do header false I'm specifically saying false because by default is true so I'm specifically saying false this will not work why so when let's say producer has published an event order Consumer able to properly consume when producer publish payment consumer will fail. It will fail that hey cannot convert from order to payment. Why? I told you when you put header equals to false read use type header equals to false what it will make use of is default type. Okay. So when your producer sending the order event so order event would be type cast to order properly done consumer able to read it properly. Okay. Uh decentralization work properly when producers and payment and consumer read this event. Since use header type is false it will use default type. Now what it is trying to do is converting. Okay. It will try to dialize this payment into order. it won't be able to do desialization fails. Okay. So how to resolve this? So we need to understand the problem first and after that solution is like intuition. So if you that's why I go through this flow again and again because this flow is where the solution lies. The issue comes because when you start the spring boot application you know that two bean it created consumer factory and the concurrent Kafka listener container factory. Consumer factory what it has all the properties from the application.properties file and in the application.property file we also have default type. Okay. So it also has let's say default type also. And now this object is wrapped into this concurrent Kafka listener container factory. Now when it start scanning Kafka listener. Okay. So what it found two two Kafka listener one for order one for payment event. So now for order event it will create a consumer. Okay. Now let's say it create a consumer. So it create a consumer with which what object consumer factory and this consumer factory has what default type this one let's say order similarly for another Kafka listener let's say for payment it will make use of your consumer factory object only to create Kafka consumer right so this consumer factory this has what property order only. So means same object same consumer factory object is used to create a consumer object for both order and payment and that's where the issue is because from in application.property property we have only one way. We can define only one default type. But if you have multiple Kafka listener this same default type would be for this Kafka consumer for this Kafka consumer. Now the question is or you can say that the solution is that hey when we have multiple listener they should have the consumer factory with their own default type. They should have a consumer factory with their own default type. That's the only solution I have built. So what I have done is I've created one configuration class at the rate configuration. The same thing this this two things I now I am taking the control. So first is I am creating order consumer factory. Okay. So the parameter it accept is Kafka properties. So here props this one dot build consumer property. See means whatever you have properties defined into application.property file that will come. Now you can override whatever you want. What I'm overriding value default type. Hey use this order.class for order consumer factory and return default Kafka consumer factory object with this config. So I created a bean for with my my logic. Similarly for payment the same thing payment consumer factory first load all the properties which is present into application.properties. Now whatever the property you got loaded override the default type now payment.class for the payment one. Okay. And just create an object. First step done this I have done created for both now the second I told you that concurrent we need to create this object and within this object we have to wrap this consumer factory that's what I'm doing concurrent one object bean we have to create so one I'm creating for order another I'm creating for payment okay so concurrent object we are creating and within this object I'm just wrapping up the factory this one order consumer factory similarly in the payment one I am wrapping the payment consumer factory this one that's all that's the only thing which I have done now only thing is during Kafka listener I am telling topic is this and the container factory which I have to use is order Kafka listener factory this one similarly for payment the topic is payment event container factory which have to use is payment and Kafka listener factory this one that's solve now header equals to false okay now everything works smooth no change okay let's do this demo also and
