=== Demo of Manual Mapping (978s - 1226s) ===

let's see the demo. So here I have already cleaned everything like uh deleted all the logs started the controller and the broker and we can check that any event exists. Currently payment event also doesn't exist also order events also does not exist. Okay. Now this is the producer. So just to check in the producer config it will create a order event three partition and it will create payment events right and here I have one method with key and it will publish order hyphen events and here I have with key hyphen payments which publish a payment hyphen events. Okay. So, let me and also let me see. Nothing much, right? Yeah, this is what so let me first start the producer. Let me start the producer application. So, producer application is started. Let's see the topics are created. Order hyphen events created and similarly payment hyphen events also created. Okay. three partition and two replica uh two replicas. Okay, cool. So producer is up and running. Now consumer so consumer what we are so I have created multiple listeners. So which we will see. So the listener which we are interested currently is the manual mapping one. So here if you see all other listeners one by one we will see. So currently all uh other listeners are commented out. All we are interested in this listener manual mapping we we are currently seeing that. So Kafka listener the topics I am interested in order events payment hyphen events. Okay. And uh this is the consumer record I am taking out. If topic is order events I am man doing manual mapping. Okay. And this your object mapper is coming from JSON. Similarly, if payment event, I'm doing payment mapping and just printing out. Okay. And let me just check properties. In properties, we don't need this. We don't need default type. Very simple. Okay. And the value decelizer we want is a string decalizer only. We want this. Okay. So, I think we are good to start the consumer application. And let me see config everything is commented out. Cool. So let's start the consumer application also. Consumer application is also started. Now we will hit with key with key publish order. Okay. So here let's say order - 1. This is going to publish order created and event publish and with key hyphen payment is will publish payment. So p-1 first payment created event published. Let's see it successfully read consumer successfully read. Okay. So it printed this this one payment and order colon sorry so approach one is clear right manual so we accept it as a string and then we take care of doing the mapping what is the approach to auto mapping
