=== Validations (1618s - 1838s) ===

spring boot automatically validate fields after binding before the app fully starts. So one thing is you have to add this dependency spring boot starter validation because this will add enable certain annotations which we are going to use. So first thing is we need to add add the rate validated annotation on top of our add the configuration property class. Okay. And also remember that whenever any validation fail application will not even start itself. So see this example now this is very simple one. I created at the rate component I want a spring to create a bean. Add the red configuration property means after the MTB is created by spring configuration binding will start its work and it will bind all the configuration starting with user to its fields. Now I also put validated means all the annotations which I am going to add now that need to be validated. Okay. So now here if you see I have put add the rate not blank message and I give the messages name must not be empty on the top of this name. So now here if you see what I'm trying to do is adding a validation. Okay, whatever the value. So first sequence is empty bean. Second is binding like binding is your property to object and the third is validation. Okay. So validate what it will validate? it will validate the value of these fields whatever the annotation we have to use okay let's say that for the age I have used the annotation add the rate min value equals to one so means the minimum value of the age should be one okay and for the testing purpose in application.properties I have put zero okay so when you start an application itself it says that failed H cannot be zero whatever the message you have given. Okay, your validation fails. So see how easy it is to validate the values which are coming from application.properties. Okay. And there are so many validations which we can use like at the rate not null you can use like this value cannot be null. Not blank means not null, not empty. Okay. So here like uh not empty you can use it on top of list and map that it should have certain values. Add the red min, minimum value, add the red max. If you want to define what is the maximum value, positive or you can use positive or zero. It's like greater than 0, greater than equals to 0. Similarly at the rate negative, at the rate negative or 0, less than 0 or less than equals to 0. Okay. So there are different reaxes. If you see that these are nothing but like hibernate if you have seen the hibernate validations right it is very similar to that one internally actually it use that only okay so if you are familiar with hibernate we have seen the hibernate validations also previously okay so it's very similar to that one only.
