=== Handling Configurations as List (1056s - 1243s) ===

Now we can also handle the configuration as list. Okay. See this one. Now we have already seen this one the simple one object one. So this is object this is simple direct mapping. Now this is we are telling you the list. Okay. So list I'm telling you the two flavor list of string list of object. So let's see first the list of a string. So let's say your configuration looks like this. User.0 admin user. One editor. Likewise you have this. So the same at the rate component I want a spring to create an object. Add the red configuration properties and prefix user. So all the anything starting with user dot ultimately comes to this class. Okay. So name age active and this one we have already seen. Okay. So this is its static nested class we have already seen. Now this is the list one. So what's the field name? Roles. Okay. And what values generally putting a string. Okay. So simply I put list of string and I put it getter and setter method. Okay. It will automatically bind 01 in the same order to this one. Similarly here if you see user now here I have course zero dot name course 0 enroll true similarly I have course one dot name course one dot enroll okay so now here if you see course you can visualize like course is an object which has name and enroll fields and we have zero one. So two objects of it. Okay. So it's an array of course. So it's an array of object. Okay. So this is the example. So now here if you see the list of course. Now again the course would be static nested class. So static nested class here in this one. Okay. So it is inside a user and I already told you why it need to be static. Okay. So now what two fields it has name and enrolled. So I have the same field name and enrolled. It's getter and setter and ultimately the getter and setter for this one. So it will be able to do proper mapping. So here here I am using it user configuration.get roles get zero get one. It would be the same order you will get admin editor. Similarly courses I am printing get quotes get zero its name and the get one get name. So Java springboard the same order. Okay. So we can also bind the list in application.properties to a list in Java object. Similarly
