=== Handling Nested/Complex Configurations (633s - 1056s) ===

one more advantage of this is like you can handle nested complex configuration nested complex. Now here if you see the first thing this is simple we have already seen that now see this two what I'm doing here is user dot so this would be handled by my this configuration okay here I have put at the rate configuration properties prefix equals to user so this configuration or this class configuration binding would be used to handle all user dotest because this is the prefix user. Okay. So for now any configuration starting with user dot configuration binding going to use this class. Now here if you see I have address dot city address dot country. So means we can create address as an object and these two can be field inside it. So that's where I have done. Okay. So here what I have done is I have created address config one nested class. Okay, within this user configuration, within this class, there is a nested class we are creating and okay, I gave a name address config and it has two field city and country. So, I have the same naming I have used. So, okay, it's getter and setter and getter and setter of all this one. Okay. And one thing is that I have specifically made it a static a static nested class. You can think of like why static why not non-static. If you remember in the Java series we have already covered this nested class. Okay. So nested class can be of static non-static. Okay. So why specifically here we have to use static. So the thing is how spring manage the bean. So see this flow with that you will get an answer generally like why static we have to create okay in this case whenever we are trying to do configuration binding only in case I'm telling you whenever we are trying to do configuration binding. Okay um in this case we always create an static nested class. Reason is first a spring creates user configuration bean because it add the red component. So user will creates its empty bean. Okay. Now it will see a field address configuration. Okay. So it now this it see this okay now what it will do once it's create an empty bean after that I'm saying empty bean is created. Now configuration binder got invoked. Now it is using the setter methods to uh set name age active from the application.properties. Okay. Now binder sees that uh address doconfig. Now it has to update the field of this. Okay. Now what it will do is it uses internally reflection and try to initiate the type address config using the default no r constructor. So internally binding calls the so it has to create an object of first address config. It has to create an object of this and after that it use it calls it setter method. Okay. And to create an object of it, it call the default constructor. Default constructor. Okay. Now understand that when you are not defining it static, let's say it is non-static. What if you can recall from from our Java series if you are following that whenever we create a nest uh nested class and it's a non-static what is the default constructor? Default constructor generally is your address config and it takes a parameter of your parent class user configuration let's say UC. So this is the default constructor which generally added even though I haven't written this constructor internally the default constructor it add is this not the default constructor with no argument this don't get added for the nested class for non-static this is the default constructor added and if you can recall we used to call it that hey user configuration object dot new and then your address config like this. Okay. So internally it always pass the reference of your parent object to here. Okay. So one thing we are clear that when we are using non-static then default constructor which get added is which take a reference of the parent object. Okay. But the binder reflection try to invoke the no arg constructor. Now if there is if this is non-static no arg means constructor which do not take any argument that doesn't even exist. So it will not work. Your binding will fail. Your binding will fail. Your binder will fail. So that's why we have make it static. So when you make it static means it is not associated with your parent class. Okay. And then the default constructor which got added is the no arg constructor. Okay. So your address config and the constructor which don't take any argument that will get added. Okay. And that's why here binder able to work. So that's why it is always created a static nested object. Okay. So yeah now come back to this one. Let's say I have a user inside this address dot city user dot address dot country. So what I did is I created address as an object and all later one it's a field inside a address. Okay. And since this is inside the user I created a nested a static nested class. Okay. And you can easily use it like uh there is like no problem at all like how we are going to create an uh object simple in that way you can use it. So this is one way of handling the nested complex configuration.
