=== What is ConfigurationProperties and how to use it (210s - 633s) ===

would be easy to understand why at the rate configuration properties is very popular among industry. Okay. So it maps configuration from application.properties into Java object. This is important not to a one field to a Java object. Okay. So it makes our configuration structured, reusable and validated. How? Once you have the Java object, you can reuse it. You can pass it to different classes. Correct? You can have validation on top of it. How? I will also tell you. Okay? So, validation is very easy through annotations. Okay? And it's now structured. We have a proper Java like you you can group together particular. Let's say these are my uh invoice configuration. These are my sales configuration. So you can group in a Java object like configuration depend upon certain logical grouping you can do. Okay. So we can create some structured configuration uh which can be validated which can be reused. So now see this example application.properties. So here I have certain configuration like user.name name certain name user dot age user doactive so now how can I use it so now see this we have to create one Java class okay so let's say I created one user configuration because I want to group all the configuration related to user into one class okay into one object so I created a class user configuration I annotated with at the rate component. So I am telling that hey spring you create an object for this. Okay. Now I am also adding the annotation at the rate configuration properties. Okay. So whenever you add this annotation there is something called configuration binding. So its task is to bind between application do.properties and your Java object. Okay. So it helps in binding. Okay. So now I am adding this annotation at the rate configuration properties and I give the prefix any property start with user. So any property start with user is fall under this. So it's like user dotster. So it will catch all and it will try to map each application.property into this field now. Okay. So now this is clear. Now I have to create a field. So one is like name. So I created the exact same name. Okay. So generally okay there is certain relaxation. Let's say here you have is hyphen enabled something like this. So you can hear create is enabled camel case. Okay. So these are allowed. Okay. You won't face any problem that if you have used underscore here or hyphen here you you can't use like how you will use here. You also have to use underscore here. No. Okay. So if you use a camel case properly it would be able to do proper mapping. But I would always recommend that try to make a same name. the same name so that the mapping would be like we are 100% sure okay because see this mapping is not controlled by us it is done by configuration binding so it might be possible that uh it not able to bind certain property okay so now here if you see that I keep the same name so this name would get bind to this one this age will get bind to this field and this active get bind to this boolean okay so Now what will happen when you start an application? When you start an application, let's say we have annotated with at the rate component. So means a spring will create an empty bean first. It will create an empty bean. We have already discussed the life cycle of a bean in the starting of the series if you recall it. Okay. So first spring create an empty bean because using default constructor. Now once empty bean is created. Now okay and uh now the configuration binding during application startup only I'm saying configuration binding what it will do is it will try to fill up these values. So during empty bean these all have default values name would be let's say null age would be zero active would be false these are all default values say okay now configuration binding would bind would read the application.property property. Okay. And try to do the binding. Okay. Try to fill up this value using what? Using setter method. Okay. So, we need to have a getter and setters. Okay. Configuration binding is you going to use setter method to fill up these values using application.properties. Okay. Since we have already uh done add the rate component bean was already present but it's an empty bean means all it has default values and configuration binding now calling setter method to update these values through application.properties. Okay. Now whatever the user configuration class you have created or bean you have created you can simply inject it into whichever class you want. Okay. And use like a normal Java object like I am using user configuration dot get age get name is active. And here you can see that I am able to print it. Okay. So this is how simple it is. Now also you can see that you can properly like group the configurations logical grouping you can do you can reuse it okay you don't have to create another class for you reusing it again and again once you have created it now you can autowire it anywhere in the code base you want. Okay,
