=== What problem exist for which we need ConfigurationProperties (0s - 210s) ===

As I said welcome back to the channel and today we will see that how configuration property is useful for us. So but let's first see the problem then we will come back to this uh topic. So let's first see what the issue with the add the rate value annotation. We have already covered this right. So add the rate value is good for injecting a single property but it become pro problematic as configuration grows. So we know that we have certain properties in application dotproperty file. Okay. And with add the rate value we can inject that property into our Java code. Okay. How like this? Let's say I have a class DB connection. Okay. And I have this field string username. So there in application.properties there would be one config like app dot username. Okay. And whatever the value would be. So that I am injecting from my property file to this field like this. Okay. So we have already covered this. So we have to use this annotation add the rate value and then we have to use this placeholder and the property name what we have to inject. Okay. Now the problem is that if there are let's say a group of configuration which you have to use then it's always one to one mapping. So if you have to inject 10 values you have to do 10 times add the rate value add the rate value add the rate value likewise okay so one thing is it's too much duplication of add the rate value annotation or duplication in the sense is not like uh same configuration I mean you have to use a lot of this annotation let's say if you know you are working in a big tech organization definitely you know that 100,000 like these These are very very commonly faced challenge in uh these tech companies like configuration continuously grows and lot of things are configurationdriven itself. Okay. So we have a huge number of configuration. Now if you have to do one to one mapping just see how many times or how many places we have to use this annotation. Okay. So that is the first problem. The second problem is there is no way to validate. Validate in the sense like I want to say that hey okay this password which is coming from the application.property it should be present. It should be greater than 10 and less than 25 in size. There is no way to validate or put restriction and top of it. Okay. So once you have got the value from the application.properties properties after that you have to manually do the validation that whatever the value I receive it's valid or not okay so consider this two major problem which add the rate value has and now add the rate configuration properties comes into the picture. Okay. So now it
