=== Handling Configurations as Map (1243s - 1618s) ===

configuration as map. Now here if you see see this one. So we have already seen different uh here again this is just to remind this is simple direct mapping this is object this is your list and now we are seeing the map. So now see this one user dot preference dot theme user.preference dot language user.preference preference time zone. Let's say your requirement is you want to store in a map is like theme dark language en so it's a string comma string let's say you want to store like this then even this this now you can say that here can you see that can with any other way can you handle it without even map so here if you see user dot So this class going to this prefix class going to handle it. Okay. Now you say that preference dot theme preference dot language preference dot time zone. You can say that hey I can create an object of preferences and these are all fields within a preference. That's what we did for the object. Yes, you can do that also. Okay. And if you want you can also handle through a map. So this preference become your map name. So here I created a map string comma string and preferences this become my map field name and this is key. This is value key value. Key value. Okay. So now here if you see just getter and setter now it will bind like this become your key. This is value. This is key. This is value. This is key. This is value. That is also possible. But if you want to use as an object, create a nested class and uh a static nested class and create a preference as an object that is also possible like what we did for the address. Okay. But alternatively, you can also create a key like this. So this is your map field name and this is your becomes your key value. And this is how I'm able to use it. So this is my map, right? Get preference, get key name, theme. Okay, so it works. Similarly, map of an object. So this is here if you see it's a map string, a string. So we can also extend it to the map of an object. So see this is an example user dot. Okay. So anything is starting with user going to ultimately to the user configuration because that's the prefix. So that's till now we are clear. Now here if you see what the configuration look like locations dot home dot city locations dot dot country location dot office dot city location dot office dot country okay. So what do you see here? So here if you see this location can be our map field name. Okay. So I created first thing is map field name. Okay. Now here if you see this becomes my like a string home office. So my map is like home and now I'm creating an object which has city country city country okay then I have a key office then I have let's say this is an object office city office dot country so I have an object which has the city country okay so this is just like you can also handle through an object object but I want to handle through a map. So like this we can do that. So this become my map whatever the map I'm going to create it's field name then these become my key and internally this become like an object which has this values. So this is how I did it like map string address config. So here I already have an address config right from previous one. Okay, I already have a static nested class. So, address config has the city and country. That's why I use the same field city and country. Okay, so I am creating a map of a string, address config. So, a string going to be this one either home or either office. Okay. And address config has this city country. Okay. And this location is the my field name. That's all the getter and setter. Now it will properly bind it. So it will look for the map which has this name. So it found this. Okay. Then it will store the key. This become your key home. So it will create one home. And then this city home dot city home dot country. So this city and country it will see that okay address config is the object. So it will get this object bind this city and country and store it here. So we can even create complex map objects also and you can simply use it like this normal how Java object is used to access the values. Okay, you are able to get the location. Okay. So till now it's clear that we can map even the complex configurations in our Java objects either it's a list list of object map of object normal object direct values everything we can do that now another advantage is the validations
