=== Constructor Binding, Immutable ConfigurationProperties class (1838s - 2347s) ===

Now last thing would be like one questions comes to our mind. Okay. Sh one doubt. What we are saying is currently till our sequences we are creating an empty bean. Why? Because we have used at the rate component. This is very important. So see the sequence and then see the answer also. The second thing is we are saying configuration binding configuration binding. What it will do is it will use the setter method and invokes the setter method to update update the fields using application dotproperties. Now what if I have to make my configuration class immutable? Okay, generally this is how the interviewer asks the uh interview question generally that how you can make your configuration properties class immutable. Okay, because let's say you have given an answer through at the rate component one then definitely the sequence going to be like this. First bean would be created and after that configuration binding has to invoke the setter method to update the values and whenever you have a setter method definitely it's not an immutable class. Immutable class means once you have defined the value it cannot be changed. Okay. But if this is the how we are doing this currently it is definitely not immutable. Why? First during empty bean let's say age is zero. Then during configuration binding it call the setter method. update it with the whatever the property value it has. Let's say I have defined 27. So you are changing it. Definitely it's not an immutable. So now the question of uh the ask question intention is how you can make this configuration class immutable generally which is very important. Once you read the configuration from the properties it should not be changed by anyone. So this is very very important and this is how actually it's used in the industry. It should be immutable. So answer is constructor binding. Okay. So see this how we can do that very very simple. Okay. But very minor you can say that uh observation here what we are doing. So first I created earlier the class name was user configuration. I just changed the name to immutable user configuration. Nothing same thing. Okay. Now here I make the all the fields final. Now constructor binding as the name says so we going to be using constructor when the object is first time object is going to get create at the time of creation of the object itself I'm going to initialize this so immutable user configuration I'm creating a constructor and all the fields okay and that going to initialize at the time of object creation itself okay so it's not first like you are going to create an empty bean or no whenever somebody has to create an object it has to pass this value and at the time of object creation itself these values would be set okay so this is going to be the thing and then here I have only getter methods no setter method now see what things we needed one thing you notice that there is no add the rate component I removed it why because as soon as you put at the rate component means you are telling a spring that hey you manage the creation of an object okay and when spring going to manage the creation of an object spring doesn't know how to or what value I need to provide here what value I need to provide here what name I need to provide here what age I need to provide here what active I need to provide here okay so spring Or you can say that spring IOC inversion of control doesn't know how to invoke this constructor what value I need to pass. So at the rate component that's why I removed it. Okay. And I gave this responsibility to configuration binding itself. Okay. earlier configuration binding sees that hey okay whatever the user configuration I have it's object is already present yes object is already present yes then call the setter method to update the values now we just need to tell that hey you also have to take the responsibility of creation the object also okay and that's we do by like this in our main class application class we have to tell Add the rate configuration properties scan. So whenever you add this configuration whenever you add this annotation at the rate configuration properties scan what we are telling to the configuration binding that hey I am giving the responsibility to you to create an object for this configuration class property class also. Okay. So I am not relying on a spring. I'm giving the responsibility to configuration binding itself that you create an object. Okay. And when it scan for it so it knows so it first read application.properties. Okay. And then when it find this object find this class it need to invoke its constructor. It will do the binding. Okay. What value exact it has to pass. Now it knows because it has read from application.properties. properties. Okay. So at the time of con uh creation of a new object, this value would be set. Okay. And there are no setters and these are final. So now our class is immutable. So these this is the only change. No add the rate component. You only got why because spring doesn't know what value I need to pass. Okay. So that's why spring won't be able to create an object of it. So that's why we I have removed it at that component. I don't want to give you the responsibility and who knows what value to pass is configuration binding because it reads the application.property. So this is how we tell okay at the rate configuration property scan on top of your main class application class. Okay. But you might be thinking hey earlier why it's not an issue earlier whatever we are doing it when it is not immutable. See earlier it's not an issue because even though we have used at the rate component okay there we have default constructor default constructor which is no arg constructor so our spring inversion of control can create an empty bean create an empty bean by calling a no arg constructor so that's why at the rate component was working properly it able to create an object through calling the default no constructor. Okay. And then configuration binding calling setter method to update it. But here in the immutable since we don't have setter method. Okay. And we don't have this default constructor no or constructor. Okay. So that's why add the rate component will not work and that's where configuration bindings comes into the picture. Okay. And here if you see it worked properly. Our immutable objects work properly. And also there is no difference in the validation of the field like how we used to validate the field like add the rate minimum uh add the rate not null like in uh nonmutable class like similarly for the mutable also it's the same thing you can use above the field itself. Okay. I hope this is clear. Add the rate configuration properties. If there is any doubt let me know. We can discuss further in the comment section.
