=== What id MDC (41s - 600s) ===

diagnostic context. So in logging framework this plays a very very critical role right in and very critical role because because of this only I would say that we are able to achieve distributed logging. Okay we'll we'll show you how. So one very important is it's per thread key value map. So this MDC is nothing but a map key value. So key value but it's per thread for every thread there is only one key value map exist. Okay. So always remember this per thread. So MDC.put you put a key and the value logging framework log back log 4j2 can automatically read and attach the key value to log events. This is the most important part because of this only we get like or I would say that why MDC is very critical because all the logging framework like log back log 4j can automatically read this map or the data present inside this map. So here if you see that let's say in your code you have put mdc.put output certain key payment id and the value and you have does the log dot info certain event you are trying to log so what happen is you know that one of the implementation so this is SL4j interface SL4j interface info okay dot info so there would be some implementation in which is present inside either logback or log 4j 2 so this is an implementation. What it does is it will convert your log statement into log event which is nothing but a i logging event. You can say that it's an object. Okay, it will convert into i loging event and in the i loging event there is a field called mdc property map. So this property this mdc do.put output whatever the value we have kept into the MDC that you can say that it is copied of this event. Okay. So every event every whatever you are doing log dot info log dot error log do anything. So one event is created which is nothing but a when I say event means I logging event object. So for this also it will create I logging event object. For this also it will create ie logging event object. For each log statement one event is created. Then inside this event object there is an statement MDC property map that is filled with whatever the data present inside your MDC. Okay. So now your event has this MDC value. Now there's a level check. Yes. Okay. This is this log should be accepted or rejected depending upon the logger level. We have already discussed that. Okay. If your logger level is let's say info. So all the log statements uh with info or above level would be accepted. So this is let's say info it would be accepted. Then ultimately it goes to the appender where we have formatter uh like normal pattern or through JSON encoder. We have already seen that. That's where you can see that another advantage comes into that is that they have a proper understanding how to read this MDC this MDC property map. So in the formatting whether you are doing a JSON automatically whatever the data you are putting into the MDC that will also get appended into your JSON. Okay. So currently you are just putting log.info info payment is successful. So yes in the JSON you already have message payment is successful and whatever the data you have in the MDC that will also come MDC data will also come. Similarly in the P pattern if you are not using JSON if you are using just plain text pattern there also it is possible that your MDC whatever the data is present into the MDC that can come here okay because I logging event has that info and over this appenders whether you are using logback or log 4j2 can automatically read and attach the key value to the log events ultimately the output they can attach So here just see an example this will get little bit more clear. If you find it little bit confusing here like what exactly happened see this one. So here I have written an appender you can give any name the class is console appender means the output where the output will go console. Okay now the encoder so I am using pattern. So it would be like a plain text. So the format is date level logger level info logger name the message and here if you see I'm using percentage x so this percentage x is like whatever the data all the data present inside your mdc that would be showed up okay so percentage x is like to fetch all mdc data so it will come as like key one equals to value one okay so here our let's say key is like payment ID so it would become as like payment id equals to 1 2 3 something like that if you have more comma whatever the let's say another key is user ID u 1 2 3 something like this will come so percentage x means print or read all the values of the MDC and add it separated but if you are only interested in one specific value of the MDC then inside a pattern return like percentage x and in the placeholder you give the key name itself. So what would happen is only for this key this value would get ultimately printed into the log event. So is to fetch a specific MDC key value. Please note only value for the specific key comes not payment ID this key name will not come only its value will come. Okay. So here one thing I wanted to show you that even though I am just doing log.info how come our appender during formatting able to access the MDC data? You got it right? Because when this log.info is converted to i loging event, this field get filled up. Whatever the MDC data we have that is filled into there and the formatting works on this i loging event only because this event only we have to format it. So it has access to this MDC property map. Okay. So we have the MDC data present and we are just using it with percentage X. So percentage X is to read all the MDC data. Percentage X and the placeholder is for a specific key if you wanted to read from the MDC data and in structured JSON. Okay, we have already seen structured JSON by default MDC field access is true. So here if you see now my appender whatever the name you want to give you can give the class I'm using is console appender means on the console the output will go now the format of the output would be like the event would be I am using encoder log-enccoder which is for JSON okay and include MDC true generally if you don't write it by default it is true only okay so by default it will read your MD MDC data and put into the format like in a JSON form key colon value then key2 colon value like this okay if you but if you don't want to read the MDC data you can make it false so that's the you can say that what makes MDC very very critical that our logging framework log back log 4j2 can read the MDC data what you have okay can read and also can add into the log events even though I am just doing log info whatever the data I have in MDC that can also come into the log statement with each log statement you can say that
