=== Problem2 solution, TaskDecorator (1280s - 1775s) ===

So that is actually used to copy the parent MDC to the child MDC. So this is nothing about a logging framework. So task decorator is not a feature of u like logging framework. It's a normal spring framework generally I would say. So task decorator is nothing just a wrapper around the runnable task. So see this understand this with an example. So I'll come to this. So let's understand with this flow first. So you have a parent thread. Okay. So you have a whenever the program is started one thread is associated first. So let's say it's a parent thread. Now in the parent thread what we are doing is we are invoking payment service.process process payment. This part payment service dot process payment. Okay. And this is an async call. It is invoking an a sync method. So what would happen? What is the flow? So the flow is first proxy will intercept. Okay. And then it will create one runnable task. So it will create this like this runnable task that okay this task has to be runnable because this task need to be submitted to Q and from Q worker thread will pick it up and run. So what it will run this it will run this hey invoke this okay so currently it's not submitted to Q and it is not picked by worker thread currently at this point it create only runnable task okay now I told you that task decorator is just a wrapper around the runnable task okay so the next step is before it submitted to Q it check if task decorator not equal this is the framework code. So here if you see task decorator not equals to null, it will first decorate it. So what it is doing is it accept the runnable task. Okay. And decorate it. So now how I am decorating it. See. So this is my task decorator which it will trying to invoke. Okay. This is the method we have to override. Implement task decorator. So here currently all happening into the parent thread itself. So here if you see currently all happening in the parent thread. So means I have access to parent thread MDC. Okay. So now first it read the MDC from the parent thread. Okay. So now this has all the information. It's just a map key value map. Now I am just wrapping I am just wrapping the runnable. So this is the actual runnable which we created. What was the actual runnable? This one. This is the actual runnable which we created first. Okay. And I told you that uh task decorator is just a wrapper around the runnable text. So this was the actual runnable and we have just added a wrapper. So first is that if context map is not equals to null set it. So this is child. So currently this is just a runnable. So when who will execute this code new thread or you can say that the child thread okay they will execute this code. So MDC dots set context map that will get set for the child one. So this context map with what info they will get set with the parent one. So we are taking out the info from the parent. Okay. And in the runnable so this is just a runnable not yet picked by the child. So in the runnable task so this will get set MDC dot set. So whichever thread is going to pick this task going to start working on this their MDC will get set with this. Okay. After that actual runnable what was that? Run it. Whatever you have to invoke run it and the finally clear it. So you see that it's just a wrapper. Okay. So we are just wrapping this actual runnable. So above that we are setting the MDC. After that we are clearing the MDC. That's all. So that's all. Okay. So first you create a runnable and before you try to submit it what it will do is it will if decorator is not equals to null it will call the decorator. So our decorator will get invoked. Okay. Then we have just wrapped it around certain information. What information? MDC set and after that MDC clear this is the new runnable which we have created. Okay. So it return runnable itself except runnable return runnable and after that that got submitted to Q executor Q. From there worker thread will pick it up and give it to one thread and that thread what it will do is it will start executing this code. Okay, it will start executing this code. So what we have done is that we have copied the parent MDC to whatever the thread going to going to come its MDC like new thread MDC through task decorator. Okay. So this is very critical interview questions when comes and this thread decorator is nothing related with login framework. So I just uh told you so that we get a little context what exactly is task decorator. So we can write our task decorator okay and associate it whatever the thread pool executor you have. So if you have your custom thread pool executor we have already covered threadpool exeutor in depth into the Java series. So if you have a custom thread pool executor, you can just set task decorator and you can add this one MDC. So currently here I am not setting it because I don't have my custom threadpool executor. I am using spring boot default. So spring boot will automatically so here if you see it is using a spring boot default executor. It automatically set the task decorator MDC task decorator. But if you have a custom threadpool executor in that wherever you have defined your custom threadpool exeutor you can set the decorator and just set MDC the class name that will get set. Okay. So here after setting this you can see [snorts] that async payment process successfully. Now it got user ID and payment ID. So this is clear right? So here you can learn more about this task decorator in dev. Currently it is not associated with logging framework. Okay. So this flow I just showed you so that at least we got like how parent thread MDC is copied to a child thread MDC. Okay. So before we submit the runnable because runnable is the one which actually run by the new thread. Before we submit it, everything is done by parent thread. And that's where before we submit this runnable that you have to run this code, we are have a task decorator and wrap it around another you can say that we create another runnable and it's just a wrapper around the actual runnable. Okay. So this is the actual runnable and we just create another runnable. This is another runnable I'm creating which has a wrapper like copy the MDC from the parent and once the actual runnable done clear it okay so now we know what is MDC next we have
