=== End to End Distributed Logging using TraceID and CorrelationID (2426s - 3623s) ===

actual distributed logging where we have multiple microervices and request passes through let's say service one service two service three and request passes through this we have already seen a glimpse of it okay we can easily achieve through correlation so that's what we are going to do but for that prerequisite is distributed tracing okay so distributed tracing we have already covered and distributed tracing what it does is when any request come request one comes into this. So tracing help us to track the path of a request across microservices. Okay. First it goes to this microser then this then this. So it's path. Okay. So tracing track the path of request across microser. For each request unique trace ID is created. Okay, so we know which service invoke which service. But another very important part is it does not log detailed events. So with trace id with trace ID if I put a trace ID if you remember from the uh distributed tracing video we have integrated with Jagger. So if you search with trace ID you only get that service one service one invoke service two service two invoke service five. That is the request one has followed the path when it entered this application. Okay. So this is the track it followed. But with this trace ID you can't get okay for service one what are the logs for service two what are the logs for service five what are the logs for this request. So that's where correlation ID comes into the picture. Okay. So we have a coalation ID that correlation ID 1 coalition ID 1 that okay yes this is the request in this service these are the locks okay and this service these are the logs coalation one correlation one coalition one this service these are the logs coalation one coalition for this request now one question should come to your mind hey trace ID is also unique for a request coalation ID is also unique for a request why can't they be same okay why can't they can have a same ID why we need a different trace ID like okay I have two ID trace ID correlation ID with trace ID I am getting this hierarchy like what path my request was followed and with correlation ID okay service one I know that uh it my request goes to service one then in service one I am putting correlation ID so trace one correlation one I am using correlation ID one to fetch all Then okay from trace I know that service two is also involved in this request flow. I goes to the service two now it's uses the coalition and fetch all the logs. Why can't we have a same ID? Because they are both unique to a request itself. Okay. And with the same ID what my log aggregation tool will do. It would be helpful for that also. Hey this is the trace ID. T1 for this is for my request R1 search it. So now log aggregation tool know that okay this ID is for the flow also I can get a unique flow what all path this request has followed plus the log also have associated with this ID itself okay so it's easy for them you don't need to manage two ids okay so that's what generally most company does in production Okay. So I have already told you that distributed tracing just record track of the request but no detailed logging. Whereas correlation ID we have like detailed logging for each service. Service one service two in their huge logging file. We can associate this log statement is associated with this correlation ID. Okay. And I told you that yes both can be same. Can they be same? Yes. And that's what big tech company does. So let's rewind what we have done in distributed tracing because you will see that okay whatever done till now previously we can easily achieve distributed logging with that itself. So if you recall distributed tracing I told you that distributed tracing has this filter server HTTP observation filter. Okay. So if you open this filter and see what it does is it intercept the request when it comes. I told you filter is the one entry point. It intercept the request and what it does is it create a new trace new trace ID and that time in the distributed tracing we have not I have not told you but this not only generate new trace ID but it also put into the MDC. So if you are just doing log info payment is successful in this log.info info if you are doing if you are using a structured logging then this trace ID is automatically coming in your logs so you don't specifically need a filter for correlation ID you don't have to worry about that I need to generate a unique ID for the correlation because anyway you need tracing if you have a distributed micros service you have multiple services okay Then definitely you need a tracing to determine this request goes through which all services otherwise you won't know what all services are involved which all services is failed in the path that will automatically take care of adding a unique ID into the MDC and when you do log.info info this trace ID which is added into MDC got also attached to this one when you put the log and the same thing you can use to filter out okay so that's what the advantage I am using for the tracing that we don't need to add custom filter okay uh so we don't have to worry about correlation ID because unique ID which is for a request trace ID is already present into MDC and also So we don't have to pass the collation ID in request harder. I told you that when service one service 2 service one is invoking service two in the request header you need to pass the coalation ID so that whatever the logs for this request this service 2 is creating they will also have the same coalition. So this log is also like coalition ID1 coalition ID1 coalition ID1. So this also has correlation ID one same correlation generally this is industry standard multiple service for same request same correlation ids all uh component has so how this is achieved in the request header you are passing the correlation ID which they are using it they are not creating new and in the distributed tracing we have already seen [snorts] in the distributed tracing video we have already seen that trace ID is automatically present present into the request header. Okay. So when service one invoke service two in the request header trace ID is automatically added. So when the service to receive this request they also pass to server HTTP observation filter because in distributed microservices we have to use tracing. So this filter exists and will this filter exist what it will check it will intercept the request if the header request header contains the trace ID it will not create new it will reuse it the same logic okay and after that it will put into MDC. So both the things are working with distributed tracing both things are working. Why? Because distributed tracing what they are doing is when the request come they have an interceptor they are catching it they are for this request one they are creating a trace ID okay and when this got invoked service got invoked in the request header this trace ID is also getting passed so that is all fine this is all done till tracing but one thing we didn't I didn't tell you in the distributed tracing it also put into MDC. So in MDC also it put that this is the trace ID one. So what happened because of MDC is that whatever the logs this service is writing for this request they will also got this unique trace ID and that's what we want. We want to attach a unique ID with the log. Okay. And this unique trace id automatically get passed to with the tracing it goes to the request header and there also it has a filter and it will check that okay if the request has the trace ID it will use the it will it will not create new trace ID it will use the same trace ID and it will also put into the MDC. So its log also will have the same ID. Okay. But still, but still you will see that many companies still write a filter for the correlation ID. Why? There are two reason. One thing is we need to send the correlation ID in the response header. So we can have our own filter for coalation ID and in that we can add it into the response header like here I am doing it. So here if you see coalition ID filter I am adding into the response. Okay that is one advantage. The second advantage is what if tracing is disabled. What if your company says that hey we don't want tracing at all. then your correlation logic would break also because now you hardly depend on okay trace ID is present and then only I would be reusing it. So we still have correlation filter. So see this one example. So now we are using tracing also distributed tracing. So in the distributed tracing these three dependency we wanted so I have added it. Kindly check out the distributed tracing video if you have any doubt. If you think that I'm going fast, it's because we have already covered distributed tracing. So I have added the dependency in pom.xml and in application.properties I have added like this is our Jagger uh endpoint. Okay. So my Jagger is already started. This is the endpoint and this is my application name. Now this is very simple controller class like when this endpoint is hit it is just doing log.info and return successfully. That's all. No uh trace ID correlation ID logic here. Nothing no MDC nothing. It's very simple like how in the production you are seeing. Now all the game is inside the filters. So since we have added this tracer tracing into our application. So we have a micrometer and open telemetry. So this filter is bring by micrometer. So what this micrometer will do when the request comes it will intercept the request. Now let's say we have like service one invoke service 2. Request is coming to service one. So first it will goes to this server HTTP observation filter. Does request has any trace ID? No. This is the fresh request coming. So it will create one trace ID. So this filter is already we have we don't have to write that filter that comes with the micrometer. So and also it will put into the MDC also. So we have a trace id something like a trace ID and some T1 into the MDC. It's already present now. Okay. Now it's a filter chain right? So now our filter will run also. So all custom filter run later. Okay. So now our filter will run what I have put a logic that so tracer I am using a tracer. If you haven't seen the tracer uh distributed tracing video you might find it difficult. So kindly check it out. So generally this is the uh you can say that class which we can use to fetch the trace ID. So tracer.curren.context.trace ID. So I am fetching out the trace id. Hey if there is already a trace ID created or not because if it is then I am not creating a new ID for my correlation but let's say in future tracer is disabled so what ID I will get unique ID null if it is null then only I am creating a new ID so my correlation filter will always work so whatever the log events will come it will always have unique ID if trace if trace ID is present it will use that if that trace ID is let's say disabled or tracer is removed tracing is removed from your application still we will generate one unique ID for the collation so for now we have tracer enabled in our application okay we have a tracer enabled so trace ID is present so what I'm doing is that yes take out the trace ID if it is not null okay then we don't have to create a new ID we are just putting MDC doput correlation ID So in the MDC we also put correlation ID also the same trace ID T1. Okay. And also in the response I am setting that okay I want to send into the response also that in future if they have they want developer to debug they can pass us the correlation ID and we can sort out the logs. Okay. So here in the response here I have shown here somewhere in the response. Yeah in the response we can return like this whatever the coalition ID or trace ID you are putting. Okay. So I'm setting into the response. Okay. And finally MDC.clear. So now all the filters run. Ultimately the control goes to our controller where is got this one controller. Now it's doing payment is successful. Now when payment is successful so logger appender will come because this only has to print. So I'm using pattern not JSON one. So here I have percentage X means whatever the data present into MDC. So in MDC what we have trace ID coalition ID which is should be same. So here if you see it's in this one we have trace ID 9 E7D something coalition ID 9 E70 something. Okay. So even though trace ID is present into the MDC we are still adding coalition ID which is generally same. So we are not generating a new we are reusing the same unique ID for the request and it's just an advantage for the coal uh log aggregation tool that okay if you search with this ID they can do both the things first with this ID they can track the path okay s_sub_1 s_ub_2 then s3 and with the same ID itself they can fetch is the logs also for this request. Okay. And here if you see I don't have to worry about that. Okay. If I created an another application service 2 what I have to do everything is taken care. Why? Because service 2 is also going to be same. In service two distributed tracing we have to enable. So the filter will automatically come this filter. Okay. And when service one invoke service two automatically this micrometer pass in the request header this trace ID. Now it service 2 this filter what it will do is it intercept the request. If the trace ID is present into the header it won't create new. So it filter already put MDC trace ID the unique trace ID whatever it is created T1. Okay. And the same filter we will add into into service two also the same correlation filter. Okay. So there what would happen if the trace ID is present which is already it don't create a unique coalition ID. It will use the same trace ID and put it. So with the same code into the another service will work out of the box. Okay. And we have achieved the distributed logging. We have an ID through which we can track the path of the request and we have the unique ID within each log statement which our log aggregation tool like data dog can use it. So this is now the task of the log aggregation tool data do we have just posted the let's say file inside this log events we have just associated with each log event a unique ID t1 let's say t1 t1 okay now it's up to log aggregation tool like data dog they need to do certain filtering indexing whatever they are doing whatever their logic would be all we have to do is in their search tool we have to just put t1 okay and okay I am looking for a field let's say trace ID T1 because in our logs trace ID is also there. So if you search with this trace ID again this log aggregation tool would be able to show the event in a particular service. If you also search with correlation ID and give this again this log aggregation tool would be able to show all the logs which has this correlation one in the particular service. So you can search with either trace ID, you can search with coalition ID because that our logs each log statement has both. So log aggregation tool should be able to parse it and do certain indexing or not. Okay. But our work is still here. If we
