=== Problem1 i.e Log Pollution and MDC.clear() importance (861s - 1077s) ===

okay sh that's all okay till now we are good but why you are doing MDC dotclear here so why this is I have done to avoid log pollution. Now this is again a new term. What is log pollution? In interview when an interview say that hey how you per pre prevent lock pollution to happen very important. So this is nothing but I told you MDC very heavily used okay because this only helps in distributed logging. You will see I told you it's a per thread means for one thread let's say thread one there is one map one MDC for another thread it has its own map MDC its own MDC okay now in the modern system we have something called thread pool executor okay in the thread pool we have already created multiple threads Okay. And whenever any new requests come, let's say request one, request two, request three, they pick one thread out of this pool and use it. Okay. Now, it's very very likely that multiple request uses the same thread. So whatever the data request one has put into the MDC of thread one if you don't clear it up and if the same thread is picked by another thread another request then the log pollution will happen like so request through is now accessing kind of the data which is stored by request one in the MDC understand with this example. So here I have a thread pool. I have two thread. Thread one, thread two. Request one comes which is for user one. So it ask a thread pool that give me one thread and thread one is given to it for the request A and the thread one. This thread one MDC has currently user ID user one and it's performing some task. Now let's say this task is completed. Thread is added back to the pool. Now the request B is coming which is for user two again ask for thread pool hey give me one thread again thread one is given now assume that we haven't done MDC dotcle we have not done that so mean this map is still present so here what this because this MDC map is for per per thread so this thread is still have maintain its own MDC which has previous request data user ID user one but this is wrong currently request which we are processing is for user two but it picked by the same thread we haven't done the clearer so even for this logs this MDC data will come user ID user one so log pollution happened you are processing request for the user two but in the logs you will see user one okay so that's why wherever we have certain like reusing the thread concept And generally in modern if you are using a spring boot definitely by default even if you don't add there is a by default thread pull exeutor. So you are reusing the thread. So it's very important to clear the MDC as soon as the request about to finish its work.
