=== Problem2, Async call and MDC behavior (1077s - 1280s) ===

Now another important point which interviewer might ask okay so for each request I am creating an MDC let's say and clearing the MDC and request one so is this safe or anything need to be handled more yes one more thing whenever this task is invoking another task which is so ins let's say this is parent uh parent thread and this parent thread is invoking a task which is a singing so it will create a new thread and I told you MDC is per thread so when you create a new thread means new MDC for that thread so it will not have whatever the parent has the info in the MDC So this need to be handled too. So whenever we create a new thread like at the rate async your parent thread MDC is not passed to the child thread. Every thread has their own MDC. So see this very simple example here I have added one payment service inside that I have a method process payment which is add the rate nothing but and in this I am doing log.infoing info ursing payment process successfully. Okay, very simple. And this is a payment controller. This is the uh method get payment. So it has MDC.put MDC.put. So currently till now main thread is going on. So this MD this has its own MDC which has this payment id and user id. Now what I have done is payment service do.t process payment. So I am invoking an ursing method which create a new thread. So this will create a new thread. So I told you that new thread new MDC. So it has its own MDC. So this MDC which has this payment ID user ID is not present here because this is the new thread. Let's say child thread it has its own MDC. So when you're doing log.info info this MDC data is not copied here with this statement. So here if you see for this payment service logger payment service one I am using this logger name payment service and this is the appender I'm using I am using percentage X means all values which are present inside an MDC. So what ultimately you are going payment process successfully assing payment process successfully. So this message is printed successfully. Percentage X means all the value present into the MDC. What we got? Hyphen nothing empty because we have no data into the MDC. All the data present into this parent main thread one. So this is one critical thing which we have to handle. So how to copy the parent MDC value to child MDC? It's asked a lot and even if you are working you have to deal with it. You might see in your codebase company code base there are task decorator.
