=== Why Correlation ID is important (1775s - 2027s) ===

to understand what is correlation ID so here the problem understand one problem is everything is good till now so we have our application and this application multiple requests are coming and logs goes to let's say we are creating one file app.log so logs will go app payment process user created this is writing certain logs this is calling some other API which is writing some other logs request three is calling some other API which is calling which is adding some other logs so in our app.log log. We have so many logs. But how would you tell which log is added by which request now let's say later this query come that hey this request got failed or why it got failed. Can you debug? Now you open the app.log let's say okay you know that on which date it failed. Okay, I opened the file for let's say okay for 19th December I opened the file. Now this file has thousands of log events. How would I know that okay this payment process was done by request three or by request two or by request one or by request 100? We don't know. So how do you find the log for a specific request? Say for request one I want to know this request one has return what all log event I want to only see that that's where correlation ID comes into the picture. So correlation ID means for each request we give one unique ID. This is unique ID 1, unique ID 2, unique ID three for each request. And whenever any log event they are doing okay log.info we also add this unique id. So what happened is like this with every log event we also have a unique id. So request one when comes to the application we created one correlation ID C1. So C1 correlation ID is nothing but a unique ID given to a request. So request one has C1 and whatever the log events it is generated I am putting user created C1 okay something payment process C1. So we know that what all log events are generated by this request. Okay. Similarly request two has correlation ID C2 and whatever the log it will put it has this ID attached. Okay. And now our log aggregator tool whatever if you are using a data dog or something if they are reading this file you you can simply say that hey show me the logs with ID C1. Now it is very very easy for it that okay it will just show you all the log statements which has C1. So it will show you that only. So now you can only focus on this log events and also one thing is that in the response in the response we send this. So when you send a response from the application let's say for the request one in the header we send this C1. So that in future if client say that hey we are facing an issue with this request its correlation ID is this C1 developer can ask give me the correlation ID then only I would be able to debug okay so now they will give a correlation ID yes this is a coalation ID I would go to the aggregation tool put that hey fetch me the logs of the C1 what aggregation tool will do from this huge logs it has already done indexing and all So it will only filter out the log statement which has this C1. Okay. So this is something very important that correlation ID. Okay. And if you want to implement this
