=== Code Example of MDC (600s - 861s) ===

so see this in an example so here is the payment controller I am creating a logger object with the name payment controller class. So this would be creating one logger with com dotconcept dot payment controller. Now I have put mdc.put payment id mdc.put user id. So two keys I have and I am just doing a normal log statement log.info. So what would happen? You know right internally this would get converted into event I logging event and in this there is one field like MDC certain context right a certain uh MDC property map so MDC property map field is there that will get filled up with this two values okay then ultimately our appenders will run okay so here let's see its appender what we are doing it Yeah. So the same thing the uh I have 1 2 three appenders and our logger. So our logger name is com.concepts.p paymentcontroller. This is the logger right. Okay. So here I have associated this logger with three appenders. So all these three appenders will run. Then the log statement is accepted. So my logger level is info and here log statement is log.info. So this log statement level is equals or greater than this logger level. So yes this is accepted and when this is accepted so all these three appenders will run. Okay. So first appender is console with MDC. Console with MDC. This is the name print on console and this is the format. We have already seen that I am using percentage X payment ID. So only this P123 will get added. Okay. So here if you see payment is successful percentage D date level is info logger name message hyphen this one. So there date info logger name message payment is successful and only the value of the key payment ID it is coming from the MDC. So second appender I'm using console with all MDC. So here this one. So here I am using percentage X means all values of the MDC. So here here if you see user ID and payment id will come both key equals to value, key equals to value. And the third appender is console with JSON. Okay. So here MDC is true. Even if you don't write it by default it is true only. Okay. and it's uh encoder is log stash means in the JSON form it will come. So here we have already seen in the structured logging part like these fields are already defined into log stash okay encoder but here if you notice that we are getting this user ID payment ID in a JSON form right so that's the advantage of MDC if you have certain data in the MDC then with each with each log statement those value can be added. Okay. So very important again I'm saying with each with each log statement if you have 100 time log.info info log dot error log dot this with each one this MDC data is associated and with each log it can be added into the output. Okay. So we have to be very very specific what we are adding into MDC. If in MDC you have put like thousands of fields then it's possible that all these thousand might comes to your with each log statement which is not even you wanted this is not the expectation okay but here you might have noticed that
