=== Code Example of Correlation ID (2027s - 2426s) ===

the prerequisite is filter. Why filter? I told you that whenever any request comes to an application this request we need to assign one unique ID. Okay. So we need an entry point and we need to check at the exit point so that when request comes we generate correlation ID and when the request goes we send the response also that in the response header this is the coalition ID let's say. Okay. And which is the best place for this is filter. So we have already discussed filter into the spring boot series. So filter versus interceptor we have already discussed and also JWT implementation in the spring boot. We have used a filter a lot. So you can get more information about the filter into JWT authentication also. So if you have any doubt about the filter kindly check out this two videos in the spring boot series. So very very quick recap about the filter. It is used when we want to intercept HTTP request and response and this was the diagram. So request comes to our server. The first thing run is filter chain. So we need to add one filter. Let's say this is our filter we have added into the chain. Okay. So when the request comes this filter will run and when the request goes also then this filter will run. So now I am doing that. So this is the normal API I'm writing. This is the log log.info payment is successful. Okay. And appender is uh this is my logger name. Appender is console with all MDC. So this is the appender encoder pattern. I am using percentage X means all the MDC data should be added here. So till now here I don't have any MDC. Okay. Now I'm writing my custom filter. Kindly check out our filter videos then only you would be clear like currently I'm not going like what is once per request filter. We have already discussed that one. So I'm creating one filter and in the filter what I am doing is if in the request header we have the correlation ID use that otherwise create a new unique coalition ID. You can have any logic. This is just I showed you an example. If in the request header coalition ID is present, use that otherwise create a new coalition ID and put into MDC. MDC do.put coalition ID. This is the coalition ID. And also in the response I am setting response header set this coalition ID and proceed with the next filter. You can have filter change you have multiple filters. So that's okay. So what we have done is when request comes to our filter we have created a unique ID for the coalition ID if doesn't exist in the request then we put into the our MDC also in the response header and proceed with the next filter and when the response will come okay later on finally when this filter is about to end okay mdc.clear clear I am doing it okay so this will run when the response goes out like so this is the flow let's say you have a filter request comes then ultimately your dispatcher sublet your code then it goes out then again also filter and then finally out okay so before it goes out it first run the finally and it will clear the empty set okay and you might be saying that hey why we have to read the header first generally See this is very important. Now we are slowly moving into the distributed logging part. So you have service one, you have service two. So here service one is invoking the service two. Here you have a filter. Okay. Uh this kind of thing. Similarly here also we have a filter should be similar what we have here. Now when service so this has created a currently in this request so this is request one so this is fresh request so in the request do we have a coalation ID no so it will generate one so let's say generate correlation ID one now when it is invoking the service two it has to pass this correlation to service two also because the industry standard is if you have multiple service if the request is coming request one okay so whatever the log statement goes here here here all should have one correlation so let's say it has generated correlation one so the all the log statement which is associated with request one should have the same correlation similarly for service two same correlation same correlation So if service one has created this correlation how it will pass to service two it will pass this into its request header. Okay when it invoke it it will pass into his request header. Now our filter it filter what it will do. Okay if header this is present use that otherwise don't create new. Okay if it is present don't create new. So it will reuse the same correlation. Okay, that's why I put this check. So this is clear. So why correlation is important and how we can use a filter to add a correlation ID into the MDC. Now what would happen is when you do log info ultimately appender here percentage X will try to read from MDC. MDC has your correlation ID and it will print that correlation ID got printed with this log statement. Okay. Now the final part how to achieve the distributed logging. So now we have covered what is logging, what is uh MDC, what is your correlation ID. Okay. Now only thing is that distributed logging
