=== Different methods provided by RestTemplate for communication (2491s - 3142s) ===

method which are available in rest template I told you this get for object Similarly there is something called get for entity. So in get for object whatever the response type you are sending it return the response body as an object. So here if you see I see product.class the return would be product body only. It will give me the response body only not the complete response. Complete response as status headers everything. But this returns me get for object return me only the body the response actual data response. There is something called get for entity URL and the response type. So it will give me the full response entity the same rest template dot get for entity just the your URI okay the complete URI and the type which you wanted in the response product.class class but the response type is the complete entity. Okay. So now in the response you can get the status code also you can get the headers and you can get the body. Your body would be of type this this. Okay. The only difference is that in the first one you get only this body not status not headers anything like that. For the post you have to use this method post for object. Okay. So it has your URI the request because in the post you have to pass the request body and the response type. Very very simple. Again if you see rest templated post for object your URI. This is my URI which I want to hit. This is the request body which I want to send because I want to create a new product. Right? So I create a new product. I create one object which has this values. I send this to the server and my response body would be like this product.class. Okay. Again post for object means it only the response body would be available to you. In the response it would be direct body. But post for entity means full. The response type would be response entity. From there you can get a body. You can get a status code. can read headers. So sim similarly for put we have a URL and the request. So here if you see send put and no response body is expected in the put you won't get any response right because it's only an update. So this is let's say URL right rest template.put output URL and the updated product whatever you want to update it like here generally it would have ID also this ID this ID let's say this is the product which you want to update but there is no return type similarly for delete you have to just give the URI the URL so here if you see that you provided the URL and just say that delete and there is no return type okay so So there are two more methods general method which give you more flexibility one is exchange and another is execute. So exchange if you want to customize the HTTP method according to yourself. If you want to take control of the header and the body yourself but want to rely on a spring there automatic conversion response conversion serialization right then you can go for exchange. Just see an example here I have defined a URL. Now I want to take a control of the header. So now I am creating a one header object. Okay, in the header I set the content type. If any other header I want to set, let's say authorization header and my token I have to set here. All the header you can set here. Then body. So I have created one. Let's say this is the body. Some product and name and the price I have set. Now in the HTTP entity I have set both the body and the header. So now I have full control over my header and my body how I want it right and here I am just calling the exchange. So here pass the URL which you want to hit. Okay second is HTTP entity object. HTTP entity object has two things your body and your header right. So HTTP entity has two things body and header. So second is my after HTTP method it's my HTTP entity. Okay. And after that response type in the response which you will get from the server its body should be automatically converted to this product.class. So we're doing automatic conversion. Okay. Okay. So the exchange returns you the response entity which means you have the complete header access body access everything. Okay. So this is clearly understood right when to use exchange exchange in simple term only use when you want control over HTTP method header body but don't want to do conversion response conversion serialization and all you want to rely on spring boot then you can use this there is one more call execute which says that hey even the serialization conversion also you take care of it it's like a plain Java how we used to connect right generally it's like the same thing we only have to manually do all the things we have to take care of the object like header body request response serialization all need to be handled manually right so it provide us complete uh few of the interface request call back interface and response extractor interface The request call back interface if you see it has functional interface. So we will use lambda expression but we have access to client http request object. So we can modify the request as we want. Similarly the request response extractor again it's a function interface which provide us the access to response object means we can pass the response as we want. So this is an example like I have already covered in Java the functional interface and the lambda expression how to use it. So you can check in depth there. So here I am creating a new rest template object first my URL. Now here if you see what is the I need an object of this request call back and the response extractor. So these are functional interface. So I'm using lambda expression. So means here at this point of time I have access to request. So what I'm doing is request using lambda expression I'm writing my functionality here now. So in the request I am changing the header I am adding my body which I wanted right and here if you see that I am taking care of serialization now it's not automatically done. So whatever the object I have created product I have to convert it into a bytes and I have to put this uh whatever the body which I have written right bytes input stream and I have to write it to this body request body. Okay so I am doing taking care of all the serialization and conversion. Okay. So this is the request call back nothing but a functional interface which provide access to client HTTP request object which where we can add header add our body but also we need to take care of serialization also. Similarly the response which comes means response extractor. So we have access to the response client HTTP response. So here I'm using again lambda expression. So whatever the response I will get. So this is my input stream. Whatever the response dot get body stream util do.copy to string I am just copying to string that's all. So my body would be like become a string response extractor this one. Okay. And this is ultimately where I am invoking execute. So internally it will do connect first. It will create a TCP connection and then it will send get response code right and uh then have this request and header properly set into the uh HTTP client connection object. Okay. And then it get a response and then it will do this. It will run this logic. Whatever the response it will get, it will run then this logic. Okay. And if you see print it, it will print properly. Okay. So in short use exchange again very very important when you only have to worry about headers and body. But internal one level more depth like serialization right and uh conversion you don't have to worry about it. You just send like what you wanted. It it automatically does all the parsing. That's all. But when you want full control like actually execute right everybody call internally execute only even if you say exchange put post get all internally call execute only internally right. So if you want full control then you can use execute and you can use this is one simple example. Okay. So when execute got invoked it do connect and then it will try to create a HTTP connection object which will give you an HTTP client request has this object HTTP client request. So then it this is get invoke. Now you have the request you update headers and body. Okay. After that it makes get response code. Now once it made response code it got a response. So after response what it has to do it run this parts like this and ultimately you get a response. Okay if you practice this you
