=== Used Plain JAVA to communicate between Microservices (835s - 1527s) ===

three right rest client and the faint client. So these are all used in spring boot. So spring boot you can say that it's a layer or framework which hide certain functionality from us which make things little bit easy for us. But I will say that like what if we try to invoke the rest endpoint without using this spring boot itself first. Okay. What if we try to use it with plain Java? Because even if we use rest template because since it's a spring communication type, it might abstract something from us which we don't know internally. It might be using some behavior which is used in plain Java. So we first need to understand how if we are not using the spring boot if we want to just communicate with two microser using plain java how we can do that because we ultimately know that the spring boot let's say if rest template I'm using internally it might be using that only okay so that's the first thing we will see so here if you see the order service I am writing one controller I'm writing one rest controller This is the endpoint which I am exposing. Similarly, for product service, I am writing one controller / product and this is the endpoint. Okay. So my purpose is that order service has to invoke this API of the product service. this endpoint / product / id and it will simply return this product fetch with id whatever the id I'm just printing for very very simple just returning whenever this get method get invoked simply return this now from order service I have to invoke this okay so I have written this method get order okay so whenever this endpoint get invoked from here I am trying to invoke this but now I am using plain Java no spring boot template let's see what all thing we have to do so this is the first thing we have to create a HTTP URL connection object okay HTTP URL connection object consider is as an envelope like where we define what is our HTTP method Get what is our content type? JSON application/JSON what is the type timeout right connection timeout read timeout so these all things we have to specify so consider as an envelope where we specify what is the URL also like URL where what exactly has to be invoked okay so provide me the address so all these things has to be first created so how we create we create a first object of URL URL. Okay. You provide the URL which we have to hit. So I provided a URL here. Okay. Now I am opening a connection open connection. So at this point of time it is not creating any. So this is my client. This is my server. So when I say that open connection, it is not creating an HTTP connection now. No. So currently it is just creating a HTTP URL connection object at this point of time and it set header properly like if you want to set body just set the body right and the URL we have set. Okay. So everything we have set till now the connection timeout ret time out. Connection timeout means now when your client is trying to connect with server the first TCP connection while building how much time client should wait. How much time within how much time this connection should get build up. If it is taking more time then request should get failed. And the second one is read timeout. Read timeout means after the connection is built up after TCP connection is built up the client sent a request now client is I told you it's a blocking nature right so client is waiting for the response from the server so how much time client can wait for the response okay so that's when read time out okay how much time client can wait for the response from the server so this is all we can set into this object HTTP URL connection object Now this is the second part. Okay. So now we have to create a TCP connection. So TCP connection can generally build when out of one of these three things are used. Either you call connect HTTP URL connection HTTP URL connection dot connect. Either this time a TCP connection is built up actual TCP connection got built up means three-way handshake happens or if you call get input stream or get response code which internally calls connect only. Okay. So it initiate the TCP connection at this point of time. So I am directly reading uh doing HTTP URL connection dot get input stream. So internally it will first do connect for me. So it will first create TCP connect then it will send a request for me because request is also present in HTTP URL connection and that get input stream. So it will give me an input stream where response is present. So it will also get a response and it will give me an input stream. Now from this input stream I have to read the response. That's all. So now I am reading the response from the input stream and I'm printing response is whatever the string which is returned. So it returned this product fetch with ID this. So that's what it printed. The response is product fetch with ID this one. Okay. So this is the second part. Second part is like we actual TCP connection is made either one of this three and since I am using input stream it automatically do a connection and then internally it send the request get the response and give me the input stream and from that input stream I read the response and parse it like how I want it. If I want to parse it as a string I just put use a string builder. If you want to parse it as an object, you can create an object and do a proper mapping. Once that done, this is the third part is very very important. See that I am closing the connection disconnect. Okay. So here if you see this is the code of the disconnect. What it does? It says that if input stream is not fully read. So whatever the response which you get if there is some issue with that some exception you got and this input stream is not read properly http client close server close the TCP socket close the TCP connection so HTTP client so this TCP connection right in in Java the wrapper around this TCP connection is known as HTTP P client. Okay. So we are actually closing it. If you go inside this HTTP URL connection dot disconnect. So internally if it response is not properly read it close this TCP connection. If response is properly done it just say finished. It do not close it. Why? Because I told you that in 1.1 keep alive is set to true where here keep alive is set to true. So there what happen is there is something a cache is maintained. Okay the cache we have the key and value. key is your you can say that your host URL or port number. Okay, this is your key URL and port number. Okay, and value is your HTTP client object. HTTP client is wrapper around TCP connection. So you can say that this is actually a TCP connection. So for one URL and port number you can say that for one target host the TCP client HTTP client object or TCP connection is stored against it. So whenever we did this, so whenever first we reuse it, so whenever we do dot connect right, so it will not directly just create a new HTTP client object for us because this is where actually TCP connection is made. TCP connection you can say that HTTP client is a wrapper around it. So HTTP client object is actually created. So when we do dot connect, it's not like it blindly create a new HTTP client object. No, it first check the cache. It first check the cache. If cache has this key, whatever the this localhost 8082, right? This is the host and the URL and the port number. Right? So if this key is there it will reuse the HTTP client object means it is trying to reuse it and just change it to let's say in use flag is set to true in use this this connection is currently in use as soon as we did HTTP finish we are returning to this cache back again making it like in use no false now it is not in So this HTTP connection stay valid till this configuration as I showed you above this time out and max. Okay. And ultimately so here this is the third step I'm doing. So this is our plain Java looks like if you want to communicate between two microservices. And here if you see that now I'm hitting this API order one. So I'm hitting this API. So what it will do is it will try to communicate it. So order call successfully. This is the last order call successfully. And here I am printing response right in the log system. And so here so it calls the product and print what the product return this product fetch with id one.
