=== Types of Communication in Spring (139s - 309s) ===

communicate between each other right this is very very important like you can say that this is the fundamental of microser okay and we have to understand it very clearly. So there are two different ways synchronous and asynchronous. So we are going to start with first synchronous communication. So synchronous communication means client wait for the response from server before continuing. So now let's say in this case our order service is going to call product service. Okay. So at any point of time it start the synchronous communication. So order service will wait for the response of the product service. Okay. So you can say that it's a blocking nature. Blocking in nature. Okay. Means thread wait till response is not received. So synchronous communication types are rest template, rest client and f client. So this is very important. This is actually which is used in spring cloud. Okay. And you know that whenever we are working with microservices we are ultimately have to use spring cloud because it has very well integration with all the other tools like load balancer service discovery observability etc. Okay. So we have to use an spring cloud and in spring cloud this communication type is used. But if we directly jump into the fing client and understand about it, our base would not be clear. So to first set up our base, we have to understand rest template and rest client. Okay, which are the you can say that mode of communication between microservices but without a spring cloud without a spring cloud. Okay, if you are not using spring cloud means if you are not using uh ureka server service discovery and all like all the microservices which we are going to cover in future if we are not using spring cloud functionality then these two are sufficient to communicate between the microservices but as I mentioned whenever we are because in future we are going to use spring cloud for our microservices and this is the communication we have to use but to understand it better. We have to understand these two then only our base would be clear how faint client is also working because internally it might be using the same flow only. So let's start here in this we see
