=== How RestTemplate framework works internally (2023s - 2491s) ===

worked internally? I just wrote one line object rest template object get for object and pass the URI and uh this response type and it worked. The connection is made. So what happened internally? So understand this flow very properly. If you understand the plain Java flow, this would be like exactly the same thing which it does behind the framework. So first thing when we call rest template dot get for object, what it does it it first invokes create request. Okay, I told you the default is simple HTTP client request factory. So it will call a create request method on top of it. Okay. So the request goes to here. Now what it does is it will create us an HTTP URL connection object. Okay. Earlier in the plain Java we were creating the object HTTP URL connection object. Now it's got hidden inside this. So this factory is creating an object for us. HTTP URL connection object. Now it said request method connect time out read timeout whatever here we have like get connect time out ret time out whatever then what it will return is it will return us a simple HTTP request object set the connection HTTP URL connection object inside it and return this object. it send me the simple client HTTP request in return. So this object internally has this HTTP URL connection. HTTP URL connection object this has it. Okay. And then HTTP URL connection we already know that it is a kind of an envelope where we have URI method read timeout connect time out everything. Okay. So now rest template again got this request object. What it will call is second it call execute on this request object. This request object it calls execute. So this is the class you can go to this class and check this. It is exactly the same thing you will find. So it will help you more clear. You can put some debugger point. So now if you go to a simple client HTTP request object and go to its execute method what it will do it will take out the HTTP URL connection object which we have created and calls connection.connect. I told you what connection.connect does is it actually creates the TCP connection. So it but one thing I told you if you got the flow of plain Java connection right properly it do not blindly create an HTTP client which is a wrapper around TCP is do not blindly create an object of it there is some cache involved in it keep alive cache I told you in protocol 1.1 HTTP protocol 1.1 keep alive cache is true set so it first internally invokes this keep live cache class. So this has two methods get and put. So first it goes to the get and check if this URL and port number exist whatever we are trying to hit. Okay. If yes then means there is already a HTTP client object or you can say the TCP connection object is present. So reuse it because if it is there in the cache means it is still alive means its timeout is not yet happen or maximum limit is not yet crossed. Okay but if it is not there right so we have to create a new HTTP client object or you can say that new TCP connection object we have to create and we have to also put into the cache. Okay. So first what it will do is it will take out the HTTP URL connection object and then invoke the connect which actually creates the TCP connection but it do not create blindly it first check the cache. Now once you have get the HTTP client object which is present inside a connection it will call get response code. I told you that there are three methods like get input stream, get response code or dot connect. So dot connect is used to do a TCP connection and get input stream and get response code is like where client send the request get the response. Okay, response stream it got now it has to do a parsing. So after that it invoke get response code means it now send the request to the server also and wait for the response. Okay. So now all the response stream whatever the response it has got from the client or server it's there all in the connection that stream would be there. Okay. So it's there and it return it's set inside simple client HTTP response object and set this URL connection this connection which has all this response info right it's set inside this response object and returns. So now I am got simple client HTTP response object. This has internally HTTP URL connection object. Now I am doing is handling the response and extract data. So here whatever you have defined like what type you wanted response I want to parse the response as a string or let's say some class product class. Now it does parsing for us. Automatic parsing. So it still got a stream. It read the stream and it will do a parsing. So it will use some JSON converters possibly. And once that done it ultimately close the reading stream. Okay. But here if you notice do not close the TCP connection. It is not doing u HTTP client that close or something. It's not. So this is our HTTP client. It's not closing it. It just closed the stream. As soon as the stream is closed, what happen is the HTTP client object which is our TCP connection, right? Which is there in the cache. Let's say currently it's marked as in use equals to true. Now that would be like false. Now it is not in use. It is marked as free. Now it can be reused again till its configurations are met properly. So here if you see that rest template does all the things which we were doing it manually in the plain java opening a connection setting all this timeouts uh calling connect internally does it. So calling internally the request sending the request getting the response parsing it closing the request stream response stream but it's all replaced with just one line in spring boot get for object this one line this whole frameworks now handling it okay so what are some of the other
