=== Understand HTTP Request and Response Call (309s - 835s) ===

a sample HTTP get request call. So this is a very very basic get request. So what request contains get call. So here first we have a get method like HTTP method which is like get, post, put, delete. This is my URI. This part is my URI, right? Uh what is the path which you are hitting? So in the product service which I am trying to hit here. This is the API actually. Okay. This is the HTTP protocol. So we have different HTTP protocol 1.0 1.1 2 3. So these are the protocol version which we are using for the HTTP host like the target host where our product services like so this is the port number URL and port number user agent is nothing but a client or tool which is used to make the request so now let's say I'm using curl URL to make or initiate an endpoint if you are using postman so that agent would be written like which tool you are using to actually invoke the request except format in which client want response. Okay. So if you want uh server that hey return me the response in the application uh JSON format then you have to add this. So this is a very very basic HTTP request call. Okay. And this is how very very basic HTTP post request call looks like. So I'm just telling you that so that we are in a same page right when we are calling HTTP method we know what it is when we are saying protocol what protocol URI what is the URI okay when we are saying target host because in future we are going to use lot of word host so host means this UR URL and port number okay so how does HTTP post request calls look like again same HTTP method URI protocol your target host agent accept this is all same but what extra so we have content type so in the post we also have a body like request object right what we have to send so this content type tells request body which I'm going to send you is JSON okay and the content length tell the number of bytes in the request request body what is the length of it bytes in bytes and then this is the actual body or you can say that actual data like let's say in the post request we are generally creating a new object so a new product object which I have just for example so I'm sending the body here so this is how HTTP post request call look like and let's see how the response call look like a very basic very very important because lot of things we are going to cover which very very tightly coupled with the response call like keep alive I'll tell you so again here if you see we have content type because now we are talking from the perspective of response like from the server perspective so content type is that tells client to expect JSON response content length is number of bytes in response body. Okay, this is your response body like what server is sending in the JSON format. Now here if you see these two things very very important connection keep alive and keep alive time out equals to 5 max equals to 50. Till now what we know is that HTTP and websocket till now what we know is that HTTP first create a connection right first set up a connection after that it send a request then it will send a response and after that it terminates the connection. But in the web soocket let's say you have a request like again it built a connection because it's also based on TCP so it built the connection request response but web socket is persistent in nature right persistence in nature means that connection do not terminates and also it is birectional okay but what my point here trying to say is that connection is not terminated websocket It is persistent in nature and what we know is that for HTTP every time a connection is made after request and response the connection get terminated but this was the behavior of 1.0 HTTP protocol version 1.0 in 1.1 the default behavior is this keep alive connection is keep alive is set. What does keep alive means? So by default connection is set to keep alive in HTTP 1.1. In HTTP 1.0 by default connection is set to close. Whenever connection is set to here close so what would happen here is this behavior will follow after connection request response and after that connection get closed. But in 1.1 which is the default this connection is keep alive. So what will happen is it will not close the connection as soon as possible. You can say that it will not close the connection after response. It will close the connection based on this configuration. So first is time out. Time out five means close the TCP connection if it's idle for 5 seconds and max equals to 50 means tell the maximum number of request can be sent over the same TCP connection. So you are saying that now our HTTP protocol is also persistent means it is not get closed just after server send the response in 1.1 keep alive is set and with that these two configuration comes into the picture where timeout tells that close it if it is idle for this much amount of time and this tell that on a single TCP connection this is the maximum number of requests can be processed maximum number of requests can be sent over the same TCP connection. Okay. So this is one flow when keep is set. So here if you see first three-way handshake happen between the client and server. This is where TCP connection buildup. Okay. After that client send a HTTP request which I already showed you how the HTTP request looks like. Now the client uh server respond with the HTTP response. But here if you see that connection is not closed. The client may reuse the same TCP connection again because in the response keep alive connection is used. Okay. So till this configuration is fulfilled you can reuse the connection. So same TCP connection can be used for multiple HTTP requests and once it is all done either timeout happened or maximum limit reached the four-way termination to close the TCP connection happen. So TCP termination happen of this connection. Okay. And you know that when the connection is set to close in the response when the connection is set to close after response the connection get closed. Okay you can't use the same connection again that's the difference. So we will see that because our code flows differs when this keep alive is set. I will show you how. Okay. But by this point of time we should be clear how our request call looks like, how our post request looks like, response and what is the purpose of keep alive. Okay. Now let's first see I told you of
