=== RestTemplate with Simple code example (1635s - 2023s) ===

into the picture so this This is our first spring based communication type and we know that spring abstract lot of things for us. It makes lot of things easy for us. Okay. So I would say that it's a legacy way to call rest API in a spring application. In a spring also it is a legacy because after rest template rest client comes into the picture which is the latest one. So rest template sometime when we call rest template we call it as a legacy way to communic call rest AP in a spring application in a spring application right so now let's see the same thing the same thing order service has to communicate the product service if in the rest template I have to do what I have to do the first thing is we have to create an object of the rest template okay so in the app config configuration I am creating a bean of it. We already have seen this in depth in previous videos. Right? So in the configuration I'm creating one bean and I am creating just new rest template object. That's all simple. Okay. This leave it for now. This is like or I will come back again. But for now like I have used this. So either this or this you can say that I will come to this. Here I am setting the timeouts. We'll come to that. But let's say that I have no I don't want to set time out for now. I want default timeout whatever connection time out read timeout. Right? The first thing again I just created a simple rush template object. Then what this is the order API I have created the same thing from here I would invoke this product API. I have to invoke this. So here if you see whatever the object I have created I have autodired it. So because of this auto object is already there present right. So this object would get autoired here and just I'm calling rest template dot get for object pass the URL properly right proper URI just pass it and what how your response looks like. So I want my response to be automatically parsed in a string and ultimately my response I get in a string itself. So what I have done is again I have created an object of rest template using that object I invoke get for object method. In the get for object method, I pass the URI which I want to invoke and what my response looks like either a string or either some object I want to mention it here. Whatever the response I'm getting, I want to parse it as a string. Spring boot will automatically take care of mapping it. whatever the streams response stream comes in spring will automatically map it and ultimately I get a response and I'm just printing response from product API called from order service is this one order call successful so now when I hit this API when I invoke this API order call is successful it reach till here and if you see the logs response from product API called from order service. It print the response actual it printed this. So now here if you see all the boilerplate code which we have written HTTP URL connection URL like uh stream you have to take care of response parsing all gone with a single line. See how easy it become with the rest template. So what exactly happen inside rest template we'll see that but here I will show you this another which we have left. So sometime which we want is that I also want I don't want to use the default connection timeout or ret time out I want to set it. So we can set it like this while the same thing during configuration while I'm creating a so here we have to set the factory object. This is the factory object. So here while creating a new rest template object we have to set a factory object simple client HTTP request factory object right. So this factory ultimately help us to simple client HTTP request factory. So as from the name clear client HTTP request factory. So this factory ultimately help us to return the object of client HTTP request right which ultimately kind of where we can set all our URL your timeouts your post method right ultimately all this so generally HTTP URL connection internally also has this request Okay. So the same thing. So I am creating I'm using this simple client HTTP request directory which is a default you can say that here I haven't used new rest template. Okay. So but how I will get the request object client HTTP request object. So internally by default it uses this factory only. I will show you the flow. By default it uses this factory only and set the default values. Okay. So now if I want to take some control, so this is how it does like I created a factory object and I set the what is the connection timeout, what is the read time out and put this factory. Okay. So these timeouts are in milliseconds. So this is just I want to show you here. Otherwise if you don't want to set the connection timeout, read timeout, you can directly use just new rest template. That's all. But how this exactly happened? How it
