=== Closing notes (3142s - 3373s) ===

will get to know like u very very easy to understand but what are the limitation of rest template why we call it as legacy or traditional way of communication in spring application. So the one of the biggest problem which I feel is in the rest template there are so many overloaded method. So this method which I have covered right execute, exchange, delete, put, post, post for object, get for entity, get for object. These are you can say that very very few methods I have covered. Even for get for object you will see three overloaded method. For get for entity you will find three overloaded methods. Similarly for this, similarly for this, similarly for this there are so many overloaded method. You get confused man. which one to use when and also it's very difficult to remember and maintain also. So this is one of the biggest challenge. Second is rest template was built before the concept like retry, circuit breaker etc. So yes there is a support present into the rest template but it's more you can know that more overloaded methods are there. That's why I tell you that if you want to use a circuit breaker functionality you will find one overloaded method for this for this because you have to support for all any new feature you have to add just see that any new feature you have to add you have to add for all the flavors get post put delete exchange so means like you have to keep on adding the overloaded methods for each of the new functionality you introduce so it's not user friendly to use and it is not easy to remember, not easy to maintain. So that's why rest template is in maintenance mode. No new feature only bug fixes because nowadays in the HTTP request itself there are so many new new features coming like this functionality this functionality like filtering interceptor functionality. So means they are not keep on appending new functionalities here. Now that's where the rest client comes into the picture. Okay, so we will cover rest line into the next video. But in short it's follow a builder style API or we can always say that fluent API like there is no overloaded you can say that methods we don't have to remember it just like get put post that's all if you have to do a get method no matter get for entity get for object doesn't it provide us the complete functionality so very easy to maintain userfriendly and more readable code Right? We will see that how the fluent and builder style API we have seen. Okay. and all the latest support it provide an easy integration like interceptor filters very easy integrations are present right those integration might be also present with rest template but it's not like that easy there you there might be like some overloaded method which you have to know and see lot of parameter you have to pass to use that it is possible I'm not saying it's not possible but it's not easy with restclient you will see that those things are very very easy. So we'll see you in rest client video in the next part and we will also come to the main this spring cloud way of communicating this spring cloud way of communicating between the microser f client. Okay so any doubt let me know in the comment section we'll discuss further. Thank you. Bye.
