=== Load Balancing within API Gateway (938s - 1346s) ===

Shange you have hardcoded the URI here. Okay. Means it will always forward the request to a particular microser. What if we have multiple instances of a microser? It's possible right? So our second thing second benefit of API gateway comes into the picture which is load balancer. Okay. So we can have multiple instances of product, right? So this is instance one. Then we have instance two. We can have instance three, instance four, multiple instances. Okay. Now this API gateway should also perform load balancing. So if you know we have already covered service discovery and the client side load balancer. So that comes into the picture. If you haven't seen these two videos, uh I would highly recommend kindly check this out because in this one we have internally discussed how client side load balancer works, how service discovery works because now API gateway make use of this since there are multiple instances present that's where we need service discovery because now API gateway need to know that what are the instances present let's say for product instance one is running on this host and this port. Instance two is running on this host this port. Okay. Similarly for order these are the list host and port for each instances. So who will provide this list? Service discovery. Okay. So that's why we need to integrate with service discovery and after this we have to do a load balancing and for that we will use a spring load balancer. Spring crowd load balancer which does client side load balancing framework is going to same the internally API gateway itself use the same framework. So internally whatever the internal framework we saw right how the client side load balancer works that going to be same so no changing in that one. So now product service now we have to integrate with service discovery right. the product service. So now you know if you have seen the service discovery you know this is our server this is our client this is our client this is our client okay so the product service we have added as a ureka client okay and in the application.properties properties we have put the path of the ureka. So now with this one it will tell any instance of a product service is created it will register itself with the service discovery also we have already discussed that in the service discovery video. Similarly for the order we have make it a client ureka client and in the application.properties we have provided a link for the ureka uh service server. Okay. And we already have this controller same like previously we have. So no change into that one. So now this become my client uh Ureka client. This is Ureka client. Ureka server. So this is our service discovery server. So we have added a dependency ureka server. In the application.properties we put the endpoint on which it is running 8761. and we make it these two things false. I've already shared in the service discovery video what its purpose. So I'm not going to uh again going into that but if you see if you have any doubt with service discovery I would highly recommend again check this out. Okay. So I created the service discovery server. Now API gateway. So till now what I have done is I have set up my product service. I have set up my order microser. I have set up my Ureka server. Now API gateway whatever I have now I need to make it client also ureka client. So API gateway we already have this dependency spring cloud gateway starter gateway. Now I added as a ureka client dependency also. Okay. And in application.property property. We already have this route one for route zero for product, route one for order. Now I have added the Ureka server on which server on which URI URA server is running. Okay. So that is also done. Now here if you see one difference is in the product route and order route in the URI instead of hard coding the URI http localhost 8082 and here 8081 something I put lb colon and give the service name which they have registered with the ureka server. Okay. So they are registered with this order service product service with this name. It will get registered to this service discovery. Okay. So I provided this name load balancer order service. Now what it will do is internally it will make use of spring cloud load balancer. Okay. So it will fetch the instances. So first it will fetch the instances from service discovery. Now service discovery will give you the all the possible instances present for a product or order and after that it will perform load balancing algorithm and it will pick one it will pick one instance and call the particular instance. So these two videos you can say that you need to know how the internals client side load balancer working so that you can uh easily understand what I did here. Okay. So we our API gateway is able to do load balancing also through spring cloud load balancer. All we need to do is integrate with the service discovery. Okay. And we just enable the Spring Cloud load balancer. Through this, it will intercept the request, call the service discovery first, fetch fetches the instance and then do a load balancing algorithm and call one particular instance. Okay. So you can uh so I will also share
