=== Routing (forwarding request to right microservices) (249s - 938s) ===

routing forward request to a right microser. So assume this I have already explained. So we can have multiple clients we can have multiple microservices all running on different ports. Okay. So and it is possible that in future one microser is divided into multiple or multiple microser merge together. So this is keep on going in a world of microservices. This is keep on going. You can add new microser or even for one microser if this become huge it breaks into smaller smaller microservices further. So if clients are directly interacting with the microservices and if there is any change then all clients need to update the routing logic. Okay. Now let's say that in this example order microservices is gone. It's merged with your sale microser. Now this microser order and sale microser. So all this 100 client need to update the routing logic. Earlier they whatever the traffic they are passing it to here now they have to pass it to this one. So it impact is huge and because of that the decision of creation merging it's not easy but with API gateway in mid the clients are not even bothered about it they only talk with API gateway now only API gateway we need to update the routing logic okay if this is the API earlier it was passing to here now it knows that it need to pass to this new microser. Okay. So only one application is changed not hundreds. Okay. So let's implement this. What we are going to implement? So we are creating two microser product microser order micros service. Okay. And we are going to create an API gateway service. Now whenever any request comes so our client would be here postman from postman when we invoke slash product let's say / id1. So API gateway should intercept it and decide okay any request which is starting with / products I need to forward it to product micros service and the second is let's say if client calls orders / one something now it intercept that any API starts with / order I need to pass it order microser so this we have to implement it now So first thing products product microservices you can goes to spring initializer okay just java you can select the latest version java 17 java 21 whichever you want to work with and normal spring web normal application okay so once you done that we can have one rest controller where we are just exposed one endpoint / products slash id like / product one whatever the client will pass and it will just returning fetch the product details with id that's all nothing else okay and we are running this application on port number 8082 so our product setup is complete order microservices is also very simple create a new micros service give it a name order like is spring web just we need this uh dependency and just create a very basic controller /order/ / id we will expose one endpoint and we will just print f the order details with id this one that's all nothing else and the port number on which we are running the order is 80081 so this is also run it is running on 8081 and this is on 8082 so this is also setup completed now we need to set up gateway so on the spring initializer you can choose java maven one the version give the name API gateway jar Java 17 whichever we are running now we have to choose this dependency reactive gateway okay so what it will do is it will bring this dependency into our pom doxml spring cloud starter gateway so this dependency will get added because of this when we add into spring initializer through UI so this is the first thing So now our dependency is present. Now in application.property of this project API gateway. First thing is we are running it on port number 8083. Okay. Now we are adding the routing logic. So I have added two routing logic. Why two? One is for product, another is for order. Okay. Okay. And this is running on 8083 port number. So let's add a product routing logic. So see this one configuration is like spring dotcloud.gateway route zero. So it is like we can gateway is might be connecting to multiple microservices like product like order like sales like payment multiple. So it's like route 01. It's like an array. You can consider it as an array. So route zero is for product. Route one is for order. Similarly, if there are more, route two is maybe for your sales. Then route four maybe you are for payment. Likewise. Okay. So route zero dot id. So this is any unique name we can provide. So I'm just giving product service. You can give any name in this one. Okay. The second is route0. URI. So this is the URI for this microservices. So let's say API gateway is forwarding to this microser. It is like running on localhost 8082. So that's what I am passing it here http localhost 8082 where this microser is running host and port. Now the third one is route zero predicates zero. So predicate is also an array. There can be multiple predicates. Okay. So predicate 0, predicate 1, predicate 2, there can be multiple predicates also. Predicate considered as a filter. Okay. So the first filter which I am putting is path equals to /rouct/star star means any traffic which start with / products I need to forward it to this path this URI. Okay. So you can have more you can add more predicates. So let's say I am adding this spring.cloud.gateway.troo0. Route0 means this product one. So route 0 route zero this one. So we are in the 0 one we are adding for product service. So route 0 dot predicate one. So predicate is also an array right in the zeroth one I added for path. In the predicate one I added for method. So equals to method is allowed only get post. So what now it will match any API which start with / product star or any API start with this after this it we can have anything okay but any API which start with / products but it should be get and post then we will a root matching will success and it will pass to this URL okay so this is just an example but uh In the application.properties, I have only one predicate or one filter that is for path. So whenever we will hit through our postman / product/ let's say id anything it will pass it to this product microser no matter it's a get or put or post or delete because we have only one predicate not many. Similarly for order you can also define first is now spring.cloud Cloud gateway route one. So now one is our our order. So you can give any unique ID then provide a URI what is the microser order microservices located at your host and port number and the filters. So route one which is for order and predicate zero then you can have predicates one two likewise. So currently we have only one predicate which is based on path. So path equals to any API which start with or then pass it to this URI. So you can have like method. So here we have like method. Then also you can have header. There are I think four five predicates we can use that but these are the most important use path and method. Generally method also is not heavily used. path is the one which is very frequently used like if this path match pass it to this specific service. Okay. So we have added the routing and now let's start all the three servers. So my product service is running on 80082. My order service is running on 8081 and my API gateway is running on 8083. So now all three servers are started. Now from the client which is now our postman I am not calling here if you see localhost 8083 I am calling. I am not calling product endpoint product is running on 8082 but here if you see I am calling 8083. I am hitting API gateway where my API gateway is running. So now I pass /roucts /1. So what it will do? It will do a matching. So any API started with / products, it will pass it to product endpoint and it will fetch the product details with ID 1. This is what the controller we have added. F the product with ID. If it is an order, it will pass it API gateway pass it to proper order service and it will able to invoke this endpoint f the order details with id. So now here I am calling same API gateway endpoint 80083 /1. So it will properly forward the request to the order micros service f the order details with id1. So properly it invoked the order service. Okay. So one thing you might be thinking hey
