=== Advantages of API Gateway (76s - 249s) ===

make it so important? Because lot of benefits get added. So one of the important benefit is routing means it forward request to write micros service. So assume this that client just invoking hey invoke this API. Now client doesn't need to know about all 100 microservices right it doesn't have to configure that hey for invoice this is the host and this is the port for order this is the host and this is the port so it doesn't need to maintain that all different clients all 100 clients all need to maintain that okay this is my source of truth API gateway only one server internally server does the routing okay you client you want to hit / API/ invoice pass the request to the invoice microser pass the request to the order microser pass the request to the sales microser respectively another is load balancing okay so even you have multiple instances of invoice microser so API gateway can also take care of load balancing so that when it forward the request to the particular microser it is according to the properly load balancing algorithm authentication like JWT. So whenever any request comes in API gateway also have the capability to do authentication. So no need to have authentication here. Authentication and order service authentication is sales service. You don't need code duplicacy. Okay. So we can put the authentication logic at the API gate gateway itself. Okay. So because it is act as a first entry point then your rate limiting like we can put a rate limit here like on each microservices itself. So API gateway also provide that feature because API gateway is the one which will always forward the request to a particular microser right. So we can put a rate limit here itself. Okay. So that we can avoid flooding our micros service. So we will stop the traffic at the front gate itself. Resilience circuit breaker retry all these features API gateway is capable of request response transformation. So what the request is coming it can do some transformation and whatever the response it we are returning from the microser API gateway intercepted do some changes and then can return to the client that is also possible monitoring and logging. So for each request which is coming we can put a centralized log here also that is also possible. So we will see everything like how we can achieve this through Microsoft uh API gateway. Okay. So first thing first
