=== Appender Implementation without any Logger (815s - 1216s) ===

So let's see this uh example of this logback spring.xml. So this is my logger object which I am creating inside a payment controller. Okay. So logger factory dot get logger payment controller.class. So here this will ultimately would be con.concepts dot payment controller. Okay full path. So that would be the name of the logger. Now I am creating one logback spring.xml. Okay. Starting and ending with configuration. I am writing my first appender. The appender name I have given is console. You can give any name you want the class. So I don't have to write a class that okay whatever the log I've got I need to show it on console log logback framework automatically provide this class. Okay. So I am reusing that class. So here console appender class is already present which work is to display the logs on the console. Okay. So I am and you can say that there are if you don't have to insert in DB if you don't have to insert in some custom place like Kafka then there are many appenders which are automatically available in this framework. So we can use that. Okay. So I have given the class this class already has the logic to show the logs on the console. Now I am adding an encoder and the pattern like this is how I want to show don't worry about this pattern I will come later like what all you can use here okay but consider that it is a free text so this would get replaced with a date this would get replaced with a level like this okay so don't worry about this we will come that but remember that this is just a format in which the logs will be shown to this place console and appender close. So this is I have written one appender. Now I can write multiple loggers which can use this appender but for now for now I have explicitly not written any logger. So for this payment controller I have not written any logger only I have written a parent root logger. So root level equals to info appender reference is console. So this one I have written. So now see this one these are some important points. I am I think I have already explained it but I still want to explain this because this is where many engineers goes wrong while implementing our interviews also. I have not defined any configuration for logger. Okay. So which appender to use? What is the logger level etc. So currently we have not defined anything for our logger. We have not defined any level. We have not defined any appender. So for appender it propagate upward till root. This is the default behavior and you know that it is controlled through additivity. So by default that is true. So it propagate upward and run their appenders. So it will first goes to com dot concepts. From the previous video you might recall that okay when we are creating an object of logger and this is the name. So root is the like a starting one then it will create a hierarchy that first com its logger object would also be created. Then com dot cononcept this logger object would also be created and ultimately com do.concepts dot payment controller this is the logger object. Now which logger object we are using for logging uh that it it will start from there. Okay. So currently we are at payments controller. So this one com.concept.p payment controller this is a log and we are doing log.info. Okay. So here if you see log.info info. Now two things level we have not defined any level. Second thing is appender where it would be shown that also we haven't defined for this. So for appender default is true additivity is true. So it will goes till the root level and run all its parent appender. So com dot concept is there any appender present? No. So nothing will happen. Is there any appender present? No. appender present root one we have defined that console okay so it will print on the console okay and for level if you haven't defined the level of your logger it will inherit the level from the immediate parent so it's immediate parent have we defined anything no for this one have we defined anything no root one we have defined info okay so this will inherited this will also inherit. This will also inherit. So it will have logger have level info and this I am doing info. So it is equal or greater than this. So that would be accepted. So only accepted logs uh appender logic will run only accepted logs it will accept it and look for appenders and propagate upward till root by default. So that's why here in the console we are able to see this log even though we haven't defined any appender for our logger it propagate upward till reaches till root and since root level we have defined info. So that's why over logger also inherited from parent. So that's why this log is accepted and in the console we able to see this. And here if you see the pattern we have defined into the appender we have this pattern right. So that's where this is date level info logger. This is the logger name and the message. So this is the format which is decided by pattern which we will see later. Okay. Now let's define the appender for
