=== File Appender (1881s - 2112s) ===

The second is file appender. So it persist log but not safe production. Please note that don't just go for file appender. Not safe for production. Why? I will tell you. Let's say this is the payment controller. Here I'm creating a logger object and using this log object I am creating one statement. Now in the logback spring.xml XML uh configuration start end and then I have one appender console already have now here I am writing a second appender appender name is file you can give any name class is file appender that is also present within our logback framework okay we don't have to worry about it all we can give is like file name which we wanted so here we have this property file so you can give like okay what's the package if you want to create and what's the file name you want to create so I given app.log okay generally a standard one so we create a logs folder and inside that log folder app.log block file would get there and I make append equals to true. So here also we can give false also but for now I give append true we will see what does it mean and then the end code like in the file whatever the log will go how it will look like. So this is just the way just similarly how we were doing in the console nothing different and append or close. Now I here I have written one my logger which is for paymentscontroller right com.concepts.p payment controller level it is accepting is info editivity is false I don't want to go upward I have two appender one is console and one is file so means whatever the log statement is it will goes to the console and it will also goes to the file I have also root level info and the uh root level has only one console but for this one doesn't matter because here I have additivity false so it appender will never Now just see this appender [snorts] one that it will create a file app.log inside the log package and keep on appending the log statement whether the append true or false doesn't matter. It will keep on appending the log statement on the file. Okay. So when append equals to true what does it mean? It logs are retained when the application is restarted also. When you stop the application and start it again that file is maintained and the low logs previously stored are still present. But if you make it false then what is happen is during restart it will clean this file and start appending the log statement again. Got it? So what's the use of append? So here now if you run this you will see that info log is printed on the console also in the console I got this because of this appender and also in the file here if you see log/app.log log this file got created and it also has this log statement present both okay because this logger has two appender and additivity is false so that's why it will not look for appenders for its parent but it is not good for production why because your file can grow too big and you can goes out of space. Okay. So there need to be control on the file size. That's why only file is not production save. We have something called rolling
