=== Console Appender (1727s - 1881s) ===

Now let's see what all different appenders logback framework provides. The one is console appender which we have already seen the class. So console so many times what engineer has confused with the console itself. What exactly is console? Believe me this confusion comes. So console appendon means see different device different console. So from our Java code perspective, Java code persceptive it only whatever the log you have it only put it into the output stream which has the name this output stream name is standard output H std out. Now for different device different console. Okay. So console is you can say that is specific to devices. Let's say if you are running on Azure its console is different. If you are running in local device your console is your terminal. Okay. So if you are running in docker your console could be different. So for different device console is different. But if you go a little bit down, if somebody asks you, you just say that in the console appender, our Java code would only print log or only output the log in the output stream. It's open a stream and put into that and that stream name is a standard output. Okay. Now, console could be different for different device. For local run, it's terminal. For Docker, it's Docker logging driver. For Azure, it's Azure Monitor. That's where you will see that they will read this output stream with name standard output and whatever data is coming to the stream it will keep showing on their monitor. You can say that. So it is fast no persistence no out uh no data which is coming to this stream it will be saved. It's just coming to this stream and this whatever the device you are using their console keeps on reading this uh stream and they keep showing it but it's not persistent. So like this we have one console appender. If you go inside this console appender class you will see that they are just opening a stream and putting into this output stream and that name is standard output.
