=== Appender Implementation with Logger and additivity = true/false (1216s - 1727s) ===

our logger. So currently we haven't defined the logger. Now just an example where we are defining the logger. So the same example paymentscontroller.class. So I am defining a logger. So I have an appender name console. Again it is printing the logger on the console encoder like the how the pattern we can want we can add it here. Now here I am writing a logger for my logger specifically name equals to com do.concepts.p payment controller. This one level is info editivity is true. Addit additivity true means for appender it will first run its appender and then all its parent also only for accepted logs. So accepted log is its level is info. So any log which has the level info and above that would get accepted and appender I have referred is console this one. And I also have a root which has level info and appender it has console the same. So can anybody stop the video here and tell me like when I am putting log.info what would be the behavior here? Pause it comment like what would exactly happen here. So when I hit this endpoint / payments and this logger would run log.info info. So what would happen is here if you see two times I showed info law. Why? Because I told you that it maintain a hierarchy root. Then we have com do.concepts and then com dot concepts dotp payment controller. Okay. So this is the hierarchy it maintain. So log.info log is an object of payment controller one. This one. So it start from here. It will first is this log accepted? Yes, it log level is info. Log.info. This is accepted. Now for the accepted log, it will reach till root and run its appender. Why? Because additivity is true. So first it will run its appender. It's console. So it will print on console. One time it's printed then it goes up. So have we defined any log for this appender for this com. concept? No. So nothing will happen. It will goes to its parent. Have we defined any appender for this com logger? No. So it will goes to its parent root. Any appender present for this root? For this root? Yes. Console only. So that's why from the root also it will come. So two times. Why? Because addit additivity is true. So it will run its appender and its parents also. All its parents also. So if you make additivity false then here if you see only one time will come. But then you have to make sure that when you make an addit additivity false you have to make sure that this logger at least have appender associated with it. Okay, at least one appender should be there. Otherwise you won't be able to see this log get output anywhere. Okay, I make editivity false. But here I purposely make it commented out the console. So there is no appender and even it even there is no appender for this logger and also I make additivity false means it will it will not propagate upward itself. So we will get a warning message. No appender present in the context. Okay. So you are if you are making edit ed add editivity false make sure that this logger has at least one appender. So this is another example when additivity is false which is specifically for appender only if logger level is missing it will always look upward upward. So why this example? Because many engineer got confused the propagate upward functionality between appender and level. So see addit additivity is associated for only appender. So whether you make it true or false whether it has to prop uh propagate upward or not decided by additivity only for appender. It has nothing to do with the level. Level is always always inherited from parent. If the current logger is missing the level, then it always inherit from parent whether additivity is true or false. Okay, just a simple example just to showcase that you should not get confused in this case. So this is I have just written multiple log error one info debug trace. Okay, this is my logger payment controller. So, com.concepts.paymentcontroller. So, I have an appender console. Its task is to print the log on the console. This is the encoder just like format. Now I have written one logger com.concept. So here again you might already know what would have happened. So when you create com.concept.payment payment controller. I have one logger for com. I have one logger for com dot concepts. I have one logger for my com do.concepts dot payment controller. [snorts] So this logger I have created for com do.concepts. This one level is one and appender is console. Appender is console. com.concepts.prament Payment controller. This one additivity is false means it should not move upward propagate upward for appender. And also it has one appender console but here level is missing. Level is missing. I haven't defined the level here. And I have one root level is info. info and appender is console. Appender is console. Now what would happen when this all log statements are logging? So this log object is payments controller. So it is starting from here. So log dot error is this log accepted? So what is the level of this one? It is missing here. So it will inherit from his immediate parent. It does it immediate parent has the level? Yes. Wand. So it will use this one wand. Okay. If its immediate parent also doesn't have that will inherit from its parent likewise. But since it's immediate parent has so it will use that only want. So error log dot error will it accept it? Yes. Because error log statement error is greater than uh this one. So this is accepted and log error is accepted. So accepted logger now appender will run. So it would be printed on console and additivity is false means it will not go upward. So only one time it will come. Error comes. Similarly warn is this accepted? Yes I have the level one. So it is equal. So that is also accepted. Now for the accepted log appender will run. So it will print on console. Additivity is false. So it will not propagate effort and it it will not run the parent appenders. So only one time it will come error uh info rejected its level is less than one. Debug rejected trace rejected because this logger level is one. Hope you got it. Okay. So don't get mixed with additivity true false. What would be the uh flow? Now add additivity only impact appenders upward [snorts] propagation. Okay, level has nothing to do with it. Level if missing for the logger, it will always take it from the immediate parent.
