=== Rolling File Appender - Time based Rolling policy (2112s - 2541s) ===

file appender which is important. It persists lock like file but with we have the way to control the file size. So it has different policies. which decide when and how log files are rotated. Rotated means like okay now you should have a different file. Now it has certain policy that hey your file has reached to a particular limit. Now whether I have to delete it or whether you have to create a new file like what exactly we have to do that we will define in the policy. So first policy is timebased rolling policy. Okay. So here we have the syntax like percentage D and then this you can say that it's a placeholder. So it controls the rotation frequency. So let's say if you're using like this percentage D then year month date. So rotation will happen daily. So what it would do is that it will create a new file daily. It will create a new file daily. So let's say for 10th of December, 11th of December, 12th of December, 13th of December. Similarly, if you have like year, month, date and hour, so rotation happen hourly. So every hour it will create a new file. 21 0 0 22 0 0 23 0 0 Likewise. So if you have like year, month, date, hour, minute, rotation happen every minute. Okay. If you have year and month, rotation happen monthly. So new file would be created only monthly for December for January. Likewise, so for testing purpose I am using minute. So that in a minute I would get a file for testing. So I am creating one appender name. You can give anything. I am giving rolling file time base. You can give any name and also the class is already present into the log file framework. We don't have to worry about it. So log file appender we can use the file name which we have to uh create it that we can give. So this file app.log which is present inside log you can say that the current logging goes here. Let's say you are writing for minute wise minute wise file. So the current minute data is moved to this file app.log and all the archived minute let's say 1 2 3 4 5. Okay. So currently this minute is going on. So it's this is currently going on. So it will go into app.log. Its logs currently will go into here. But for the past one, okay, those will go into this file name within a rolling policy. So now here if you see rolling policy started rolling policy off. So inside that we have like file name pattern. Okay. What's the file name pattern is like log/ within the log folder itself the same folder logs I am putting. So here the file name would be like app-en the date like this dot log. Okay. So here if you see it will go like this app/ year month date till minute. It will go like this r minute r minute. So till minute wise dot log. So it will go like this. Okay. So that is defined under rolling policy. So here if you see rolling policy the class is which I am using which policy we are using time based rolling policy. So here we are using time based rolling policy that is also present into the logback framework. We don't have to write the policy our own that's implementation is also present. But let's say if you have to write your own implementation you can give your own class and provide the implementation. But time based rolling policy implementation is already present. Use this. All we can give is that okay for the archive files what's the naming convention you want for the file name. So file name pattern is this. I want it. Maximum history is 30. So read this as so for minute wise read it as last 30 minutes log will be saved. Okay 30 files. So last 30 minutes would be saved. If you are using hourly, let's say if you're using hourly, so read this 30 as last 30 hours data would be saved. If you're using as day, last 30 days data would be saved. If you are using month, last 30 months data would be saved. Likewise, it's very simple to always remember that what this max history means. 30 we are using minute wise. So last 30 minutes would be saved. Okay. And this is the encoder. The same similar thing like in the file in this file how this data would be stored what format. So I have written my lo uh logger level is info additivity is false. I don't want to move upward and I have it appender console and rolling file time base. So I'm using this my logger is using this appender. So now if you see the output okay so here if you see I am hitting two times. So first at 41 R hour r minute I'm using minute wise right? So 20th hour 41 minute and second time I am hitting 20th hour 44 minute okay so currently let's say that this is the current minute. So the current minute goes here into app.log log but the past one will move to this file like this. Okay. So 2041. So the past one moved to this file. So old log got archived and in this file name which we have defined here file name pattern. Okay. And the current minute. So currently that was the current minute and that will go into app.log. log. Okay. And why apart from file? Why we are seeing in the console? Because our logger has both console and the file. So it is printing on the console and also it is printing on the file also. So you got it the rolling file time based. But again I would say that this is not production ready. The best is size plus time based rolling
