=== Appender logback-spring.xml Syntax (266s - 815s) ===

that how to write appenders for our logger. Please note conceptually both logback and log 4j2 use appenders to define where the logs will go but that differs little in syntax. Mostly all the things which we are going to see in the appenders right both uses with similar purpose. Okay, but there are some little difference in the syntax that's all. So I will not cover both like how to write appenders in log back, how to write appenders in log 4j2. So I will cover the log back which is default for spring boot and also very popular too. Okay, but even if you switch to log 4j2 almost similar very minor difference in the syntax but conceptually everything is same. So let's see that the first thing we have to do is we have to create a file logbackrint.xml which should exist in the path source/ main/resource under resources folder we have to write this file. So the naming convention we have to follow because spring framework springboard framework try to look for this file name itself. So this file contains all the information about our appenders like loggers, root logger and the pattern. We will see that how. So this is a very basic syntax of logback spring.xml. So here if you see it start with configuration and the file end with end of the configurations. Okay. And between that the first thing we have is appender. We can have many appender. Appender one, appender two till appender end. Okay. So this is one appender. So appender the name whatever the name you want to give to an appender you can give the class. Okay. Uh because in the appender what is the logic? It decide where the log statement will go. Whether you have to save in DB, whether you have to save in Kafka. So there should be some logic right. So the class so this is a class which for this appender name whenever this appender name is used this class will get invoked. Then we have something called encoder. Within encoder we have pattern. So now see appender decide where the log will go. Encoder decide its format how it will look. Okay. So don't worry encoder I will cover separately in the below in this part itself but there is a difference appender decide where the log will go whether DB Kafka or your uh file console but encoder again I'm saying encoder decide how it will look or you can say that its format okay so currently this is one format you will see date then you will see level then you will see logger name then the message this is one format don't worry about this that what is uh module D what is this uh percentage level percentage logger I will tell you later but for now all you have to understand this encoder decide the format of the log which is going to ultimately save into either file or DB or something which is decided by appender Okay. Similarly like this we can have many appenders we want. So this file first thing they have is appender. The second is loggers. We can have many loggers. Correct? You know that till now in the previous video we have seen for one logger name one logger object exist. Okay. So for each name you can say that one logger name one logger object exist. So we can have multiple loggers possible right let's say we have hundred of classes so for each class it is possible that we have one logger object so we can have multiple loggers so logger the name you wanted to give to the logger okay the level info want error we have already seen what level is okay by default is info and we can also provide change the level into application.properties but here also we can define the level whether it's an info warn error etc and also remember let's say that you have defined the level here in logback spring doxml also you have defined the level into application.properties properties this is more priority. Okay. So logger name the level additivity true or false. So additivity controls appender propagation only. If you remember from the hierarchy I told you that for this logger for our logger this is our logger right we created one logger object. This is the name for this name. One logger is created and we haven't write any appender. So by default it goes upward. It propagate upward and run their appenders too. So this is the parent. It doesn't have also appender. It propagate upward and run its parent appender to till root level. So till root level it runs all appenders. Okay. So currently we don't have any appender here. We don't have any append here only root has the appender. So that will get executed. So that is controlled by additivity. If you want that behavior that it should propagate upward for running the appenders make it true which is by default otherwise make it false. Okay. So controls appender propagation only additivity by default it is true. When the log is accepted, it start running all the appenders of the logger and its parent logger till root. It will append all the appenders. If you don't want to execute parent appenders, we can make it false. The same thing which I have explained. Okay. So the logger has name level and additivity as its properties and also this logger. So we have created multiple appenders. So we need to associate the appenders to the logger. So for this logger I am associating this appender appender hyphen ref and the reference you can give the appender name. Okay. So you can say that let's say here whatever the logger name you can associate one appender with this logger. Okay. So here I have given let's say appender one got associated here appender one let's say. So that got associated with this. Okay. So this is how generally we associate the logger with an appender and we can associate more than one appender. Right. So here we can have another appender hyphen ref equals to let's say some other appender appender two. So this logger has two appenders. Similarly we can write as many loggers we want. And the last is the root which you can say that the fallback sometime like it is not possible to have each and every logger. Okay. So in generally in production we have thousands of classes. We have thousands of classes. So for each class we can't write one logger. Okay. So generally that's where hierarchy comes into the picture that for parent itself we defined the logger. Okay. And that would ultimately applicable for all the ch uh children loggers also. Okay, that's where the hierarchy comes into the picture. So but still sometime we need fall back. So that's where the root comes into the picture. So root has one level. Okay, either you can define whether it's an info, want error. By default it's always info but we can have like root level info want whichever you want and the appender let's say generally console okay if you are not writing any of this XML by default it has one root this logger which has level info and the appender reference is console. Okay, but we can change it like this. Root level equals to whatever the level you wanted to provide and the appender which you want to associate with this root locker.
