=== What is Appender and Recap from Part-1 (68s - 266s) ===

Okay. So my understanding is you have already seen the part one and that's where I'm start uh starting with the appenders itself so that you know where this appender fit into this highle design itself. Okay. So appender is the component that decides where the log will go whether the log will be shown to console or save to file DB Kafka etc. Where the locks will go that is decided by appender and this was the highle design just to recall what we have seen in the part one where the appender exactly sit. So we have SLF 4j which is nothing but an interface. We have log back and log 4j which is nothing but an implementation. They make use of appender. You can say that this is a helper. So this implementation make use of appender to decide where the log statement will go whether the console your file DB etc and aggregation tools uses this output where the log statements are going and shows the logging. Okay. So till now we just created logger object and also seen how to override its level through application.properties. We have already seen that we have created an object through logger and also we know that the default level is info and through application.properties we can override this also and we ran our application and invoke the endpoint properly. We have seen that and we see that the logs are properly printed on the console. So we ended the part one with the question that we have not used any appender here. So how come the output is shown to console because what we understood is the appender is the one who decide where the output will go. So we have seen that the parent child hierarchy that let's say uh this is our class this is our logger right uh payment controller. So it's package com do.concepts concepts dotp payment controller that would be the name of the logger and it will create a package com.concepts concepts com.concepts concept dotp payment controller we have already seen this in depth in the previous so that's why I am just recalling it a little fast because this is needed for appender so even though we have not write any appender here for our logger payments controller what it will do is by default it will check the parent appender so here we have any append no it will check its parent any appender no goes to the root level root level uh root level logger always has one default appender console. So because of that we are able to see our log on console. Okay. So till now I think it might have helped you in recalling what we have done in the previous video. Okay, very quick. But yeah, now we see
