=== Rolling File Appender - Size and Time Based Rolling policy (2541s - 2972s) ===

policy. That's where the size comes into the picture, right? This is very important. How big our log file can be that we have to control. Okay. So see this one appender. So here I have created an appender. Give any name you wanted. The class is the same rolling file. appender only like we have the same rolling file appender only thing is now we are changing the policy rolling policy file is again the same the current active file uh the current r or whatever the current file will go locks will go into this file but now our rolling policy is that the class which I'm using is size and time based rolling policy this class also exists into the framework so now we using size plus time base. So file name pattern. So this is for the archive. So one any file got archived its name file name format would be log/ appy like this one it will go. Okay let's say I am using day wise day wise logging I am following because the same time based right? So day wise year month day. So every day new file would be created. Consider that. Okay. And this percentage I I will tell you what would happen. So this is like a file name. Now maximum file size and total size cap that is very important. One file how what's the size of this one file? Maximum is 100 MB. This one file size [snorts] could be maximum is 100 MB. That's all. Now let's say currently we are going day wise right let's say today is 18th of December and it's there are lot of logging very high traffic so logging goes on and size reach to this 100 MB but still so it will create another file the same app- let's say the current will go into app.log so now the second file which will it will create it will be like app.log log and the one which already achieved this size that would be like app-en let's say 2025 12 today is 19 dot I so dot zero dot log and because that was 100 maximum side it's already reached its limit and it created a new file and it's currently active this logs are happening that's it that is also reached its 100 MB size capacity. Okay. So it will create a new file that will become like an active app.log active logs will go here and this one would become archive like app- 2025 - 12 - 19 dot 1.log clock earlier it was zero then one that's where mod i comes into the picture because it's a size based right so even for the one time base which you are using whether day or for minute or for like how you are using the time base based on that we will create a file for that particular period a day wise minute wise month wise so if its size if that file size is increased then we have to just keep onre increment the index the same day but it start from 0.1.2 two and each file could be like 100 100 MB. But again the problem is what if 100 100 MB okay we have limit the size of one file what if there are n number of files we have to control that also right so there we can give total size cap hey maximum you only take 2 GB to store the logs that's all so even though 100 100 MB you are creating so many files but the max storage we have given is 2 GB If you have reached till 2GB, so many files file one, file two, file three on each 100 MB. Once you reach 2GB, the old logs would get removed. You you will always be within 2GB limit only. Okay. So that is very very important. And max history is 30. We have already seen if you are using day wise max 30 days data only it will stored whether you are within 2GB whether you are within 100 MB doesn't matter only 30 here we are using day wise only 30 days data would be stored okay so here we are creating a rolling policy and the policy which we are using is size and time based the file pattern here is the same thing only thing is we also we have index associated with Right. So let's say we are following a day level and our file size increases more than 100 MB. So what it will do is it will create a new file for the current log and the file which already reached its limit it will archive it with this naming zero. Then if the more files are coming for the same day.12 each one will have like a 100 MB maximum it can go 2 GB okay so total size cap is like combined all log files can use this is the size they can use that's all so you got it right so this is something which is production based or production ready or industry standard best for production and what how much total size cap you can use depend upon your machine capacity your application traffic okay and also max history how much back data you want to keep some companies keep only 21 uh let's say if they're making day wise many companies put day wise data uh so 21 days maximum data is available after that data is deleted. Okay. But let's say if you are very very heavy traffic taking API even in the 21 days because of the size capacity you might lose some data also because let's say even for one day you reach your 2GB limit even for one day your old data logs would be deleted. So you even though you have set 21 days but because the total size cap there is not enough space to store that much file. So all the all the logs would get deleted. Okay. So keep this number depend upon your machine your application requirement and how much data logging you want
