=== Writing custom Appender (2972s - 3167s) ===

and the thing is how we can write our own appender. So we have already seen that there are already appenders present right is it possible to write our own appenders and when do we need it when we want logs to go our custom destination like DB or Kafka then there is no pre-existing appender present which knows your DB where what's the DB and all in those cases we have to write our own appenders very simple nothing much so create a class give any name class name let's Say I've given DB appender we need to extend this class appender base this one. So i loging event is nothing uh so appender base is a generic class you can say and the event here it takes is i loging event. So i loging event is nothing but you can say that over one log statement one just we are doing right log.info this converted into log event. Okay. So this appender base is the class which we have to extend and it we have to override this class append. We we have to override this method append. And now you can have your own custom logic. So from this I loging event this one in this method we have this event object. This is nothing but your log.info kind of thing. You can take out a message you can take out a logger name. You can take out a time stamp. Okay. And how you want it to store whether DB or whether Kafka do it. Okay. So this is how simple is it to write our own appenders. All we have to do is extend this appender base. Then only the logging framework would be able to identify our class as an appender and because since it's all framework all working on interface right so they will call append. Okay. So because they need to follow some structure okay so that's why we have an append we have this method we have provided the implementation okay our implementation could be default but we have to follow the framework now it's very easy in logback spring XML you can easily create one appender name whatever the append you want to give DB appender now the class is this one DB appender class which we have written the complete class path com dotconcept dot custom appender dot db appender. Now here one more interesting is thing is you don't need encoder. Okay, because here we don't know where the logs are going. It's all present inside this class. So you decide how your log going to format would be. So take out the data from the i loging event what and how you want it to show where you want it to show decide yourself. So whenever you are using custom appender you don't need to write an encoder okay and within your logger you can use appender reference DB appender this one and it is using this class very simple and to be honest I'll tell you in
