=== Stage2, PARTITIONER (323s - 611s) ===

The second stage is partitioner. Okay? So, now let's say your key and value both are converted to bytes. Okay? Now this pass to the partitioner. And also, if you open this, there is some class called I think Kafka producer class. So, if you see this Uh, Kafka producer class, they have do send method. In that, you can so uh see this stages itself. So, let's see. First is serialize. After serialize, they might have to a partition. Okay? So, we can you can also put a debugger point in this class, and you can also check this stages. Uh, second is partitioner. So, at this uh stage, your event, your message goes to which partition, that is decided. Okay? So, what input it takes here, if you see, the partition partition.dot So, partitioner.partition, it calls this. It calls this interface, this method. So, it takes your topic, key, key bytes, value, value bytes, cluster. So, this is the input. See, we have already So, you have a key, you have a value. You have already converted them to the bytes. So, you have your topic, key, key bytes, value, value bytes, and the cluster. You pass it to the partitioner. What it return? Partition number. For this topic, what's the partition number this event should go? Okay? So, this is the work of the partitioner. So, there are multiple cases. The case one is the partition explicitly provided. So, when we do send, right? In that, it has multiple overloaded methods. So, we can make use of one method that topic, we can also provide a partition number directly itself. So, in that case, you can say that this is like does nothing. You have already provided with partition your message has to go. The second case is if key is provided. So, this ensure the same key always goes to the same partition. Like in the cluster I have showed you, right? Cluster setup also or architecture itself. That whatever the key you have provided it will make use of like, okay, hash like mod partition number. So, some formula it will do and it will come up with the partition number. Like this. Okay? So, you are using this overloaded method where you provide a topic, key, and the data. Okay, and on this key the partition run this formula. Like hash of whatever the key bytes you have provided mod number of partitions available. And it come up with the partition number. Case three is no key is provided. Now, this is also very important. So, there is also one more overloaded method send where you have only topic and the value. There is no key. Okay, no key, no partition. So, now in which partition it should go? So, generally we say that it's round robin strategy. Okay, let's say for this topic you have three partition, partition zero, partition one, partition two for topic A. Generally when we say that if you don't provide key what it will do producer will do round robin. First it will pick P0, then P1, then P2. After that P0, P1, P2. This is generally you can say that a pre-Kafka strategy, pre-Kafka 2.4 strategy. From Kafka 2.4 and onwards a sticky partitioning strategy is used. I will explain you this but after the next stage because there is one more twist. Okay? So, let's keep this in our backlog now. Okay, after the next stage I will cover record accumulator, then I will come back to this again. Like what is round robin strategy, which is like pre-Kafka 2.4 version, and what is a sticky partitioning strategy. Okay. So, now let's say that in the
