=== Stage1, SERIALIZER (144s - 323s) ===

Say, this is the Kafka template dot send message we have to send. We have provided the topic name, the key, and the value, the message which you want to publish. After you done that, inside this send, what happen is the first stage is serializer. So, our message or our event, whatever this, okay? Is generally a Java object. But, Kafka understand only bytes. Kafka do not understand a string, custom POJO, JSON, nothing. All it understand it bytes. And that's where your serialization is required. Kafka does not know what is the data type of our message, whether it's a integer, string, custom POJO, JSON, etc. And for that itself this stage exist. And if serialization stage fails, message will not move to the next stage. Okay? So, in serialization stage, what happen is two things happen. So, key is serialized and value is serialized. So, this two, key and value, because these two things ultimately is stored in Kafka. Okay? So, you can say that these two are actually serialized. Every serializer implement this interface. So, there is an interface public interface serializer. Okay? Every serializer there are already so many built-in serializer present. String serializer, integer serializer, long, double, float, short, JSON serializer. All this implement this serializer interface. We don't have to write any of this. These are all exist. Okay? JSON serializer is used when you have to convert any POJO. Okay? Plain old Java objects. So, that JSON serializer can be used. But yes, we can also write our own custom serializer. Sometime what we have to do is we have to remove sensitive fields before even sending. Okay? We have to encrypt the data before it converted to bytes. Okay? So, in that case we can write our own custom serializer. So, stage one is clear? While we will do the implement, the setup, in that way in that part I will tell you how to add serializer. But first step is to understand it. Okay? So, have you understood the first part why serializer is required?
