=== Stage3, RECORD ACCUMULATOR (611s - 1455s) ===

partitioner we able to know the partition number. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; The now next stage is record accumulator, very very important stage. So, here if you see, so serialization done, partition done. After that it does accumulator. append. Append the record to the accumulator. What is this? What is this record and I tell you this is very very important. So, it's an in-memory buffer inside Kafka producer that collects event per topic partition wise and group them into batches, very important. So, understand with this. Let's say you have a topic order events and you have three uh let's say multiple partition. So, it collect the event topic partition wise. Topic is order events, partition zero. All the events would be stored here. It group them. Okay? Similarly, topic is order event but partition is P1. So, any like partition will decide, right? Partitioner will decide that for this topic partition for this event need to go into this topic and this partition. So, what record accumulator will do? It will just collect them. Topic and partition wise. Okay, for this topic, this partition, let me collect all the events. Similarly, whatever the partition partitioner will say that, "Okay, any event for this topic and this partition, it will just collect it." So, it will create a batch. So, from producer to your Kafka, you can say that your broker. It's not like one one event it will go. Event one, event two, event three, no. It always goes into batches. And your one batch can have multiple events, which is grouped by topic and partition, which is very important. Because you know that a topic can have many partition. And the partition can reside in multiple broker. Broker one, broker two. So, it has topic A, partition zero. It has same topic A but partition one. So, you can't mix topic partitions, right? So, that's why it group based on topic and partition, so that it club all the events which need to goes to one broker. Okay? So, that it don't have to open multiple or send multiple network requests. &gt;&gt; [cough and clears throat] &gt;&gt; Sorry. So, now we know that producer always maintain topic partition wise batch. It send batch to the broker, not individual events. Now, I will come back to the point where I showed you that when you don't provide a key, when you don't provide a key, pre-Kafka 2.4 version, it's round robin strategy. And from Kafka 2.4 onwards, it's sticky partitioning strategy. What does it mean now? Now, it will make more sense. So, consider this example that you have like topic order event, you haven't provided any key, and this is the event one. Like your message. You want to put into topic order event, but key you have not provided. Event two, event three, event four, event five, like this. And for this order events, we have, let's say, three partition. This is our setup, and this is the way we are sending the message with no key. Now, what would happen? So, pre-Kafka 2.4, less than Kafka 2.4, it follow round robin partitioning strategy. So, partition, what it will do, it has the knowledge of this. Okay. For order-events topic, I have three partition, P0, P1, P2. So, what it will do, when event one will come, it will assign P0. Event two will come, it will assign P1. Event three will come, it will assign P2. And now, round round robin. Event four, again, P0. Event five, P1. Now, the partition partitioner send the request to the record accumulator. Record accumulator will batch it, group it. Order event partition zero. So, E1 will go, and E4 will go. So, they are batched together. Order event partition P1, E2 and E5, they are batched together. And similarly, order event P2, uh only one, E3 are in a batch. So, now here, if If see, we are creating multiple batches which are in a small small size. Let's say this batch capacity to keep 100 events, let's say. But now it has only two. It has only two. It has one. So, three batch we are creating. So, problem with this approach is that batch size is very small and therefore multiple network call required from producer to Kafka broker. Which can be improved further with the sticky partition strategy when the key is missing. Which is like you can say that in Kafka greater than equals to 2.4, a sticky partition strategy is used. What it does? How it is different from the round robin partition strategy? So, in this one, let's say event one come. Okay? There is no key. So, what it will do this partition? No. That for order events, I have three partition P0, P1, P2. What it will do is it randomly randomly pick one partition. Okay? And it will stick to it for this topic. So, what you got is that order events uh value is your event one, but key is null. So, what it will do is for this topic order event, out of this three partition, it will pick randomly one. Let's say it picked P1. Now it stored this into in memory. It will say that, "Hey, order event, I need to stick to P1." Now, this event one, it will just check its memory and say that, "Okay, P1." It will pass to the accumulator. This event one need to goes into the P1 of order event, so that is done. Now, next time when E2 comes, it will check its uh sticky memory. You can say that uh this has partition stored in its memory itself that, "Okay, for this topic, order event, uh key is null. For this event, which partition I need to go? Do I have any sticky memory?" Yes, order event is P1. So, it will again say that, "Okay, for this event two, put it into P1." So, event two also goes there, event three, event four, event five. So, all the events of this topic for which this has created a sticky memory, you can say, it will only return the same partition number, and record accumulator will keep on adding it. So, now here in this case, you will see that instead of three batch, we have only one batch created. And that will ultimately one network call to the broker. Now, why it is not round robin? You can say that, "Okay, now next time, let's say Let's say uh batch capacity is five itself. Okay, it can't hold more, and five is already done. Now, let's say event six is coming. Okay, when event six is coming, it will again say, "Partition again will say that, 'Okay, because in its memory for this topic, this P1 is sticky.' Okay? So, now event six comes, it will say that, 'Okay, store into the P1.' Now, record accumulator has to create a new batch. Okay, this batch is already closed, you can say that. This is closed and ready to be dispatched to the broker. So, it will create a new batch for order-events partition P1. So, even six would be stored here. But, this record accumulator will also send one more information that this is a new batch. Okay? It It opened a new batch. So, now partition know that a new batch is created, so it will also update its a sticky memory that hey, what it will do is randomly pick a game from out of this. So, randomly it could be again P1, it could be P0, it could be P2, anything. But, it will update its that okay, order-events now randomly it will pick. Now, let's say it's P2. Now, this is its a sticky. Okay? So, that's what it follows. Until and unless your batch is not closed, you can say that your batch is not closed. Your partitioner keep a map. Like for this topic, this is the partition. It is stored this information, and it will always whatever the event come for this topic, it will always return the same partition, and your record accumulator will keep on filling that batch for that topic, for that partition. And once it is full, okay? It for the new event, it tells the partition that hey, this is a new batch I have created. So, from the next event, your partition might send the partition to the same batch, the same partition, or different partition. Okay? Because it has updated its now a sticky memory. So, this is clear. Why I uh told you this round robin and sticky for this record accumulator because it's not just round robin. After round robin, it there is a batch concept also, which is very important. Okay? Because ultimately batches goes to the broker. Okay. Now, let's move ahead. Now, question one thing which you might get is how to control this batch. What should be the batch size? How much time I should wait before I I can say that this batch is now is ready. So, there are two ways. One is batch.size. So, these are all configuration. Okay? If you don't provide this, there would be a default values. So, batch.size default is 16 KB. So, means maximum memory allocated per partition batch. Okay? Per batch, this is the 16 KB is the maximum default. Okay? Maximum size it can have. Once this size is reached, the batch is closed and it is ready to be dispatched to the broker. Okay? For example, you are one event size is 1 KB. So, means this batch can hold around 16 messages. And when batch size is reached, batch is closed and it is ready for sending. Ready for sending. Now, you can say that okay, what if traffic is less and even I have put 16 KB, which can hold 16 message, what if there is only five message, but traffic is less. Like I am not getting more events. What to do? Will it keep on waiting forever? No. There is another control linger.milliseconds. linger.ms equals to 10 milliseconds. Okay? This is the maximum time producer will wait for more records to fill the batch. Once this time is over whatever the batch you have been created with events, it will close the batch and send it. So this makes sure that producer do not wait indefinitely for a batch to fill when the traffic is slow. You can say that. Okay? So in this example whether your batch is full or not producer maximum wait only for 10 milliseconds. After 10 milliseconds, it will close the batch and it will mark it as ready to be sent to the broker. So this is the two ways through we we can control the batch. Again, these are optional. Default values are already there. Even if you don't set, default would be used.
