=== Reordering issue with Sender thread in-flight connection config (2471s - 2720s) ===

An interviewer or might be if you're working your architect might ask you this. Whenever you use max in flight request greater than one and your retry is also greater than zero, let's say. What if what if the broker one like so broker one got this five request message one message two message three message four message five. All are currently in flight in flight in flight in flight and it is processing. What if message one got let's say some error transient error and it return the transient error. Now, the sender thread need to retry it. Okay, we have set the retry. Let's say it need to retry. So, the problem is when the max in flight request per connection is greater than one, means you have multiple messages and retry is also greater than zero, then there is a risk of message reordering. How? Let's say request A, request B, only two requests. Request A, request B, both are in flight. Request A fails with some transient error. So, this got failed with transient error and it's sent to the sender thread some transient error. Okay? While your broker start working on this message two and this is persisted successfully on the disk on logs. Now, the sender thread &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; does retry for this request A. And after that it got success also, because it's a transient error. Transient error means that if you retry, temporary error, you can say that. Now, after retry from the sender thread, let's say this is also gets succeeded. Now, it will also stored in the log. But now there is a mismatch in the ordering. You wanted request A and then request B. But what ultimately stored on Kafka logs for this partition is that first B is stored. So, this events, whatever the events are present here, those will get stored first. They will get all like offset one, offset two, offset three, like this. After that request A events will get and further offset, let's say 100, 101, like this it will go. So, now ordering is changed. Like this events for the request A should be before the B request. So, how you will handle this when you set this property? Max in flight request, you can't set one because then you like your throughput will decrease. This is important to increase the throughput. Okay? Retry is also important. Sometimes there is a transient failure, so it should retry. So, both are important. We can't just set it one. Okay? You will solve the issue, reordering issue, but on the cost of throughput. So, generally default is five here. Okay? Generally default is five. Max in-flight request per connection is five. Retry is also like let's say two or three times. So, reordering issue can come. So, to solve this, there is something called idempotency. We need to set it true. I will cover it separately because it is important. Okay? So, I will cover it as separate part. But, remember that we need to like this is very important part and we need to cover this.
