=== Stage4, COMPRESSION (1455s - 1645s) ===

&gt;&gt; Now let's move to the next stage. We have done serializer. In this we have converted object to the bytes. Partition, here we got that okay we which partition this event should go. Record accumulator, here we have created batches. Batch one, batch two, batch three. Topic partition wise, topic partition wise. Okay? Now once that done, it passed to the compression. So batches which are ready to send are compressed to reduce network usage. Okay? So there are various compression you can say that algorithms like gzip Okay? Snappy. So, we can use one algorithm, you can say that. And what it will do is it will reduce the size of our batch. Earlier, let's say our batch size is 64 KB. After compression, it become 18 KB. Okay? So, and also one more advantage is that Kafka will store this compressed batches. So, it will also save disk space, too. Very important part. And compression is like I would say that very important because you know that, right? How compression works? Like it do certain enhancement in the like how you are representing the data. Okay, repetitive like if you have many repetitive words, it will just replace it with like some let's say two. So, that it it do some internal efficiency. It brings some internal efficiency to represent the same data which later can be again converted back to original form. Okay? So, compression I would say that it's not See, we have multiple Gzip, Snappy. There was always also that you can say that hey, uncompressed. You don't want to compress, also. But I always say that use compression. This will save memory because you know that the Kafka is store the event into disk. So, that is one advantage where you will save the disk space. Another, you you will reduce your network usage. So, from producer to broker when the payload size is less, your throughput will increase. Okay? So, if you are using uncompressed, I would say that uh revisit it again and make use of one of the algorithm. How to use it? I will show you when we will set up. Again, if you don't set it, there's already a default. Okay? Uh but yes, I will show you that how we will set up when we will uh move to the setup stage. So, serialization is done, partition is
