=== Stage5, SENDER THREAD (1645s - 2471s) ===

done, record accumulator is done, compression is done. Now what? Now after that, it will goes to the sender thread. Last stage, you can say that. Your application thread never send data to the Kafka broker. So, let's say this is your application thread, right? This is your application thread. So, your application thread, if you see, if you open the code, so it has your application thread what it has done is it has serialized it. It has partitioned it. After then, it has record accumulator. It has invoked this. It has done this. Your application thread done this. Your application thread done this. Your application thread put your event into the record accumulator buffer memory. Now it will create batch. Okay? It will compress it. Okay? After that, what is your application thread does further task? No. See, after that, once you have submitted your task to the record accumulator, your application thread work is finished. It just return future. Okay? So, it just get free. Okay? Now, it will just this application thread is now free. You can say that. It is free. It can perform some other task. Now, there is a entry of sender thread. So, Kafka has one thread. What it will do is it will look for the batch which are ready to be sent. Okay? So, sender thread responsibility is that check record accumulator for ready batches. Okay? So, you can say that stage three stage four these are all record accumulator part. Compression is also a part of record accumulator. Record accumulator create batch. The batch which are ready and closed, it will compress it. Okay? And keep it ready to send. Now, who will send? Sender thread. So, what sender thread will do? Sender thread check the record accumulator for ready batches. Okay? There is now one another level of efficiency. Now, let's say that I have batch one batch two batch three. Now, let's say this is broker. Broker one partition zero, this is a leader. For partition, let's say five also, this is a leader. Similarly, broker two partition one, for partition one, this is a leader. Like this. Okay? Let's say we have three partition, two brokers. So, let's say broker one is leader for partition zero and partition two. Partition two, and for partition one, broker two is the leader. Let's say, P0, P1, P2. P0 leader is broker one. For P1, leader is your broker two. And for partition two, the leader is your broker one. So, broker one is a leader for two partition. Now, let's say that the batches which are ready to send. Let's say this is for topic A partition zero. This is for topic A partition two. This is for topic A partition one. Let's say these are and these are This is for topic A partition zero. Topic A partition two. Topic A partition one. Okay, this is the setup. Now, at this record accumulator, what it has done is it has created batches. Like all the events which are for topic A partition zero, it has accumulated it. All the events which are for topic A partition two, accumulated together. Similarly, in the batch three, all the events which are for topic A partition one are grouped together. Now, sender thread need to send it to the leader broker for this partition. So, who is the leader for topic A partition zero? Broker one. So, this need to be sent to the broker one. Who is the leader for topic A partition P2? Topic A partition P2 leader is broker one. So, this also need to be sent to the broker one. Who is the leader for topic A partition uh one? Topic A partition one, broker two. So, this need to be sent to the broker two. Now, sender thread do one level of another thing that okay, this batch need to be sent to the broker one. This batch need to be sent to the broker one. Why I will send two requests? So it will further wrap it up in one request and make only one call to the broker one. That's what I have mentioned here. It group batches by broker leader. Okay, batch for topic A partition zero leader is broker one. The same thing which I have explained here the same I have just written it here. So if there are multiple batches which need to goes to the same broker instead of sending multiple requests send a request further enhance the throughput by further grouping or you can say that it just wrap in one more request it just wrap that batch one batch two pass it to the broker one. Okay, in just one call itself. So now another responsibility of this sender request is when you got it that it first identify who is the leader broker for the partition. Then it group the batches based on the broker leader. Then it will send the request to the network client. Okay. Based on the response from the broker. Okay, let's say if there is a failure. Okay, it will also handle the retries also. And ultimately it invoke the callback. So I had told you that the application thread submit the request to the record accumulator and just get free. They can just so it return a future object. So here if you see it return a future object. This is the future record metadata. Now application thread just do like when complete. In Java I have already discussed completable future. It just say that when complete. So now what would happen is your application thread is like busy doing some other task. Now when the sender thread invoke the callback, okay, let's say it say that hey, mark it as complete. So it invoke this piece of code. Okay? Now based on your event publishing success, failure, your application, how you want to handle it, you can do that. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Now one question might comes to you that hey, can we control the sender thread like how many threads I want? No, you cannot control it. Kafka manage it internally. There is no way in my knowledge that we can't control this sender thread. But yes, the one thing we can control Sorry. The one thing which we can control is &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; see this one. Let's say you have your This is your cluster, Kafka cluster. This is your broker one, broker two. Now let's say this is your producer. What your producer will do, your producer here in this case the sender thread. So sender thread has create one TCP connection with the broker one, create one TCP connection with the broker two. Because it need to send the batches. Right? It need to send the batch. The one thing which we can have, you can say that the control is that max in flight request per connection we can set. So see, now the sender thread send the request. Let's say this is the message it sent. This message is nothing but a batch. Okay? This batch can have, you can say that multiple event. Okay, or you can say that this batch or this request you can say can have like multiple batches itself. I told you right it further group the batches. And those batch have further like multiple events. For now I'm just saying message. Now when the sender thread send one message now this broker has to process it. So it might take certain time. Okay. So one thing which we can control is that this number max in flight request. In flight means that sender thread has sent the request to the broker. But broker is currently processing has not sent the response back to the sender thread. So sender thread will just simply wait or you can say that what it will do. So with this max in flight connection what it say that okay you can send maximum up to five messages which are in flight. Okay, so what it will do is the sender message uses the same TCP connection. And on the same TCP connection it can send five messages. Which are in flight. So this is in flight, this is in flight, this is in flight broker one will work okay when the broker one will finish processing it will keep on sending the response back. Okay, that for this message this is the result failures acknowledge or retry you have to do certain transient failure something. So but this is one more you can say that uh control which we can do maximum in flight request. So, now you can see that why producer has so much high throughput is that sender thread already does one thing. In one message, it can have like one message generally you can say that it can have a batch. A batch can have multiple event. Or it can further in the message itself can further group the batches itself which ultimately pass through the one broker. Okay. So, your one message itself can have so many events. And also in one connection itself we can set max in flight let's say five which is the default. So, you can send like this five messages at once. Okay. So, message two, message three, message four, message five. Like this you can send five messages. Okay. Now, this five messages broker one can continue working and on it on it. It's an in flight. That's why the name in flight. Okay. And when the broker one complete, let's say it complete message two it will send the response. Completed message four, it will send the response to the sender thread. Okay. So, now here if you see in one connection we can send let's say five message. So, we have two connection. So, in the second connection also the maximum it can send is five messages. So, 5 + 5 10. 10 messages it can send in parallel you can say that. On two connection 10 messages it can send. While those are in flight. Messages are in flight. And each message is not like 10 message means 10 event. No. Again, I'm saying one message can have like okay one batch which one batch can have multiple events. Even that one message can have like group of multiple batches which ultimately goes to the same broker. So, one message can have multiple events. So, that's what I just mentioned here. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; This parameter max in flight request controls the maximum number of unacknowledged request unacknowledged request the client will send on single connection before blocking. So, we have three TCP connection. Let's say three broker. Let's say three broker. So, means three TCP connection. So, means maximum 15 request can be in flight across the cluster at once. Across the cluster, let's say this broker one five five if you have broker three five here. So, 15 messages 15 requests in flight at once in a cluster. Sorry. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Now, here comes a very important part.
