=== Implementation Step3: Setting up Application2 (2427s - 3023s) ===

Now application two setup very easy. Again same thing for application two also you need micrometer. So it comes with actuator you need micrometer interface implementation that is this SDK hotel bridge and the exporter. So this three dependency in property file whatever the port this application is running the name you want to give. Yes you want to trace all the requests which are coming to it and which endpoint it has to dump this spin. So I have this is a Jerger endpoint. So now let's add controller just for testing. So app 2 is like accepting this is the API exposed hello from app 2. Okay. So now we have app 1 and app2 setup. We have app one. We have app 2. Now app one has to invoke app 2. That's what I am doing here. Application one need to invoke application two. So earlier we had this right here we will be invoking app to that's what we saw. So now I am just changing it to this code. So we have already seen rest client rest template faint client right. So I am using restclient. So here if you see I just use the I so here we have already seen that I am using restclient builder and I create a rest line object. Using that object I am invoking the localhost 80082 API hello this one API/h hello and the port which this app2 is running on 8082. So I'm just trying to invoke the endpoint okay so now what is happening we will see that before we see the output. So what we have done is here we have set up an a f_sub_1 we have set up an app2 now from f_sub_1 we are invoking the app2 that's what we are doing here okay now when we are going to invoke the endpoint of f_sub_1 / ai what would happen is there this is the filter server http observation filter. This filter will get added automatically. So we are saying that right hey we added just pom and application.property and it's all worked. That's what we did. We added this pom we added this application.properties and we just invoke this / ai and it worked. How actually this is the filter server HTTP observation filter which got added. So you know that filter accept or intercept each endpoint. So it will intercept it and it will check. So it has two case. If you go inside there you will see that okay it does two thing. If it does not contain any header trace parent header then it creates a new trace and new span and if it already contain a trace parent it will use the same trace only but create only new span that's all okay so that's what for every operation is new span has to be created but whether it's a new trace or not that it has this logic like in a header it check trace parent header. Now similarly when app one try to invoke the app 2 at this when it will invoke the app to write outgoing call. So there is an interceptor got added too. Okay this interceptor adds a propagation header. So in the header also it add trace parent header that what's the trace id what's the span id parent span id. So who who does this interceptor? So these two things are important. When a request enters an application, here comes a filter. This is the filter. And whenever the request goes out interceptors, it adds so that it can append the header. Whatever the uh application it is another microser it is calling. So it should append the header also. So here if you see now with this outgoing call it will start propagating trace ID and spend to other microservices like this. So header name is this trace parent and then it will append the trace ID hyphen span ID. This is your so when app 2 receive the call in the header it will have this info. What's the trace ID and what is the span? So this will become the parent of this app 2. Okay, one thing before even I show you the demo for the rest client here if you see we have already seen rest line rest template fang client so I'm not going in in depth of it so you remember that we can create an object of rest client in two ways okay so one is through builder like uh here we are builder.build another is through directly restline.create. So with only builder it able to add an interceptor with create it do not add an interceptor. So let's say if you are creating a rest client object through this create and then invoke it then when you hit it you will see that hey it created a span but it has trace ID 1 it has trace ID 2 why because this interceptor is not involved the main task of so understand with this f_sub_1 f_sub_2 what would happen when f_sub_1 is invoking app 2. So it has a span one trace one. Now it is invoking it. Now when it invoked it, it also has tracing distributed tracing dependency and everything. Right? So it will also create trace one and span one or some different span. Let's say span two. Okay. Some unique spend, right? So this is also create. So that's what will happen when you will use restline.create. But when you use builder, it will add an interceptor. That interceptor will do in the header. It will append this trace parent where it has the trace ID and the parent span ID. So that this app2 will not create new trace. It will use the same trace that yes, they all part of same request. Even though it will create a new span, but it will make it that it's a its parent is S1. It will add this info because in header we have sent the trace id call hyphen is span id. So this information we passed and now its filter which filter server http observation filter its filter will catch it and it will append this information. Okay. So for rest client this is important. Similarly if you are using rest template rest template is like you can say that old way of invoking the API. So it will this interceptor will not get appended automatically. You have to use observation rest template customizer. Okay. So when you create a new rest template object and you have to in the customizer you have to add this rest template object. So what will happen is this interceptor will start intercepting this rest template otherwise rest template also it will this interceptor will not be present and your app 2 will create a new trace. Okay. So this header would be missing. So if you are using rest template you have to make sure that whenever you create a new object of rest template you need observation rest template customizer and within this customizer you need to add this rest template object that's all. If you are using rest template use builder one because automatically spring boot will take care of adding the interceptor but with this create it will not add the interceptor for faint line there is no need automatically it would be handled but please test it out. Okay. Uh, automatically interceptor will get added for the faint clients. But test it out please. Okay. So now we have done full setup. We know that okay we our application one is set up. Application two is set up. Now when app um application one is also invoking application two. We know that how everything works is because of this filters and interceptors. Now let's see invoke an endpoint 80080 which is our app 1. I am invoking / API endpoint response from app 2 hello from app 2. So this is coming from our app 2. So this is what we change right response from app 2 whatever the response we are getting from app 2. So our app 2 is returning hello from app 2. So means our invocation is properly working. Let's also see that. So here if you see
