=== What is Trace_ID and Span_ID (497s - 1240s) ===

tracking distributed tracing creates trace ID and span ID. Very important. Okay. So what is trace ID? Trace ID connect request across microservices with one unique ID. So here with this example, so this API request will get one trace ID. Now no matter how many application it goes to, they all have one trace ID. So you can say that one API request, one API request equals to one trace ID. Okay? No matter this API request is traveling through multiple microservices. Okay. So we have one trace ID for one API request. Then we have a span ID. Each service has their unique span ID represent individual part of the work done inside each service. So now let's say this request goes first within this microser. So it create its own span. So it has its own span ID. It's like how much time this service took. So then it pass the request to this next microser. So it will have its own span ID. Span ID 2, span ID 1, span ID 3, it's span ID 4. So the difference is each microservices doing some unique work that's why they have also have unique span ID. Understand with that? Okay. And trace ID is like used for stitching them together. So we have different spans. Spence means like different piece of work. So we need something to know that hey all these spans all these unit of works are part of the one API request. So that's why we have only one trace ID. So it also has trace ID 1. It also has trace ID 1. It also has trace ID 1. It also has trace ID 1. So that when we have different spans we can easily identify hey these are all belong to one trace ID itself. Okay so that's the difference trace ID and span ID with this two distributed tracing able to achieve this tracking behavior. So consider this with uh another example I'm just showing you. Let's say this is API request we hit. It first goes to service A. From service A let's say it first call service B then it call service C and service B internally call service D like this is the flow of the API request. So generally this is how internal information is stored. We will see that. But let's say service A service A because this is also doing some task right. So it will create its own span ID. So it has span one. Okay. How much time this service took. Its parent is null and trace ID is one. So trace ID is one. Okay. Then the request goes to service B. So now it will do certain task its own. So we need to know right also that uh so it's span service 2 span two. So span two and what its parent is span? Its parent span is s1. So this is its parent and this is the current span and also what it is trace ID is T1. So this is also belongs to a trace one. Then we have service C. It's it is also doing some piece of task. So it can also has to generate its own span span 3. Its parent span is S1. So it's this is also its parent and it also belong to a trace one T1. Similarly service D it is also doing some piece of work. When the request enters here it will creates its own span span 4 but its parent span is s_2. So this is its parent and this span is also a part of trace one. So this is generally how this information got stored. So trace ID is common for all the different spin. And here if you see each service generates a unique span for each task. Okay. So let's say that you have this service application one. When the request comes it does certain task and goes. So this would be like one span span one start and as soon as it goes out so here it does span one start and here it does span one end. So whatever the time this span took you get to know that okay this is the time when request got entered and this is the time when request goes out. Okay. So this much time application one overall took internally also let's say you can create custom span also. Let's say you have some heavy load. You are doing some DB operation and you want that hey I want uh want to track how much uh this DB operation is taking time. You can create a new span within this app also. Let's say spend 2. start. So we will see that what I'm trying to say you that for each task we can you can say that wrap it within a span and span is nothing it is just track like when it start and spend two. So how much time this task took actually and it's a child of which task. Okay. So this is the parent and this is the child. So by default when application for incoming any request which is coming to an application that is tracked for that it creates a new span. Whenever you create a new thread or you can say that thread handoff thread handoff that also it creates a new span and whenever like within an app let's say within an app application and you have application two whenever you are trying to invoke an application two that time also it create a new span. So for outgoing outgoing call also it create a span and let's say application two return the response. So it will span start span end. Okay. So by default you can say that generally these are the events for which your uh micros service spring boot microser internally start the spense. When an request comes within an application that time whenever you create a new thread and thread handoff happen that time it creates a spin and the outgoing call whenever you are trying to invoke the external service that time it creates a spin. Okay. So you got it right. So spend creation means span you started. Okay. Whenever a certain event or certain operation start and whenever that operation got finished then you have to end the span. So now you can track that okay this span is completed this much time it took. Okay. So the same example with this timeline you can understand that when an API request entered the service A. So this span is started. Okay. Now this span is running. While it is running it is not finished. So let's consider this as a sync call synchronous call. So service A is waiting. So it invoke service B. So service B is span started. So it is working. While service B is working, it is not yet finished. Now it invoke service D. Service D span started. Now service D finish its work. Okay. Then request come back to service B. Service B now finish its work. So its span got ended. Then it call reaches to service A. Now service A let's say call service C. So it span started. Service C completed star. So it spans end the control reach back to service A and then service A completes its span. So this is span A and within this span these all child spans are present. So now you can get to know that okay when the request enters here. Okay so this is the first starting point and this is where it ultimately end. But you can also track what all services got involved. Okay. And how much time each is service took. Now you get to know that okay service B is also involved. It took this much time. And service B also invoke service D which that which took this much time. Okay. So you can clearly see the hierarchy. Okay. So this can be done through trace ID and span ID. Okay. And we also mention parent span ID. So generally we call trace ID and span ID. We can achieve this tracing behavior. Don't worry if you didn't get the uh this how this tree is created and all. We will see an example also. But for now difference between log and tracing should be clear. Log is like more detailed application level events. Tracing is the track like request goes from service A to service B who is parent uh which service took how much time that's all also one important thing is that modern distributed logging system use the trace ID generated by distributed tracing to stitch together logs from multiple microservices that belongs to same API request. So I gave you example right previously that if a request goes to three application each app maintain their own logs there is no relation between these three each maintain their independent logs. How anyone would able to know that okay if this is my API request or I need all the logs which are involved for all different microservices which has c perform certain task. Is there a way? No, but in the modern distributed logging they use distributed tracing trace ID. So they all with the logs they also put trace trace ID 1 trace ID 1 trace ID 1 and for this request this is a trace ID. So this trace ID they will use to stitch this lock together. So when you search with the trace ID you will get all the locks involved. Okay. So that's what modern distributed logging system use trace ID to stitch the logs from multiple microservices together. Okay. So if a request goes like from order service to payment service each application have the logs independently but stitch with unique common trace ID. So let's say order service now have whenever it put a log it put like also put a trace ID. Whenever it put a log it also put a trace ID. Okay. So we will see that later distributed logging system. For today we will focus more on distributed tracing only. Okay. So yes we will see distributed logging maybe in the next topic but let's today focus on distributed tracing and its implementation.
