=== Demo of Tracing with Application1 invoking Application2 (3023s - 3469s) ===

currently it's zero nothing. Let's also refresh it. Currently Jagger all-in-one this we can ignore. This is Jagger internal something. So currently our applications are not there. This is our application trace application one. I am starting this application. This is application two. I am starting this application. So application one is started on 8080. Application 2 is started on 8082. Okay. And application one controller it has / API. Right? It is invoking rest client. The same thing which we have seen. Now let's hit that. I am getting the proper response. Okay. Now let's goes to Jagger refresh it. Trace F1 trace F_2 our application comes. So goes to the F1. So here if you see you can see the trace. Okay. So if you click here you can see this line. So you can see that all this information u your application one and then it invoked application two. Let's understand this what info it is showing. So now when I hit it in the Jerger UI you are able to see this when you in when you see that app one right you will see that okay you hit this endpoint and this two microser involved. Now if you go inside this so I when I go inside this so let's go again back here here I clicked here and I see trace JSON okay you got the JSON so if you notice the JSON it has a trace ID let me zoom in a bit it has a trace ID so here if you see this is my trace ID and each and every is spen has the same trace ID so means these all span belong to a particular trace And this span is an array. So I have given it a name like this is span one span two span three. Three spans are there total now. So here first span trace ID is yeah the same one which is there it is span ID is this one. Operation name is / API. So now understand with this one you have an app one. you have an app 2. So now when the request entered the f1 incoming request it create a span. So for incoming request a span is created. Okay it has no parent. So currently yeah no parent is there. Start time at this time it is started and total time this much it took. So when it finish this is the total time it took. Okay. So this is the process ID P1. This is the process ID P1. Now understand the span 2 trace id is this only span id is new different. This span id is for get making a http get call. So from app one I am trying to invoke app 2. So for outgoing call also it create a new spin like this outgoing to call take how much time? This is an operation also. So this also a so that's an ID for that operation unit of task making an outgoing call and see this reference it's a child of this is a child this span so let's say and this is returning so this span got finished so this spen is a child of this spen which is this one so it's a child of this one yeah because see This this span is the parent one. Then this is the child. Now focus on the span 3. Span 3 has a dist trace ID same some unique span id and operation name is / ai/hello. So it's now this is its incoming call / ai/hello. This its incoming call. So a span is created for this one. So it's a child of 01 B it's this one. So it's a child of this spin. So at this time it is started this much time it took and the process is P2. This one is P2. And here if you see this uh invocation it process is P1. So means this is a part of P1 only. Okay. So all this information span has multiple information. So this span might Jagger receive in not in order but with this parent child information and with this trace ID it can make this hierarchy properly and using this hierarchy it can construct this info. Now here if you see we are seeing this right here we are seeing this lines. What this line means? So again the same thing the request entered the application. So this is / API it is entered and it is start doing some work work work and at this point of time another span create started for invocation. Okay. So invocation process is started. Okay. At this point of time, this is the new span which is like service two trace two app two. Okay. So this is like app two when it got invoked and it finished and then after that uh again call back to this app one. So so this span is total for invocation. So now you might be thinking that hey Shri app 2 has only worked for this much time why invocation is taking this much time right from see when we are invoking from f_sub_1 is invoking app2 even app 2 works for only let's say 2 seconds but here it shows let's say overall 5 second why because see there is a network latency also network latency time for serialization So there are so many things happen. So this is spend or this unit of task add all those time. This unit of task is only for how much this app 2 has taken the time and then the top one is like the overall when the request enter and when it finished. Now you able to understand this timeline. Okay.
