=== Implementation Step2: Setting up Application1 and Demo (2044s - 2427s) ===

step two, we are first setting up first application. Our main intention is we have application one which going to call application two. So first we are doing a setup of application one. I told you what all three libraries we want. First library we want is micrometer. It brings an interface API. Second library we want is this uh open telemetry SDK which is an implementation of the micrometer. And the third library is we want this exporter which push this to this Jerger back end. So that's three libraries. So micrometer library comes with actuator in the spring boot. So once you add the actuator right internally it fetch the micrometer dependency too. Then we have micrometer tracing bidge hotel. This is nothing but this will bring the SDK which is nothing but an implementation of micrometer APIs. And the third dependency we have is the exporter open telemetry exporter which will push the span completed spend to the Jagger. So we have have a proper dependency. Now in application.properties what I have added is my where the port number on where my application is running. I give my application a name. the name which I wanted here to also showed up. Okay. So I give trace app one. Now I am giving this my management.tracing.sampling.probability 1.0. So this means that I want 100% sampling. If if I am sending 100 request all 100 request I want to trace it. By default you can check the number. By default it do I think 25 30% sampling only not 100%. But if you want to track all 100% give 1.0 means it will track each and every request and it will make sure that it is dumped to the Jagger. Then management.tracing.end endpoint you just give the endpoint of the backend service like zipkin or jagger or grapha which you want to connect to. So for jagger it is running in my local host. So and this port this is this port is accepting OTLP HTTP so that I have given if you are using zipin only you have to change this whatever the port it accept and wherever it is running you just need to give it whatever the endpoint it is accepting the spense. So that's all we need to enable the distributed tracing in our application library and application.properties. That's all. Now this will automatically start generating the spans for incoming HTTP request. Okay, incoming whenever the request enter it will start creating a span for it and whenever it goes out it will stop that span outgoing HTTP request. So you have app one app two whenever it at any point of uh time it invoke the app two at that point it will create another span span one end span to start and whenever it will get the response it will stop this okay so that also it will take care of outgoing HTTP request it will create a span any new thread you will create that also it will create a span automatically. Okay. So let's add a controller just for testing. So currently here if you see for I have only set up one application. So even when I hit any endpoint on this app one it should create a span and trace right even though I am I haven't set up app two and not invoking it but even for the f1 whenever any new request come it should work. That's what I'm testing. So I have added a rest controller and exposed one endpoint/ API. Okay. And I'm just uh my main agenda would be here I will be invoking app 2. But for now testing purpose I'm just returning response from f1. That's all I'm not invoking for now. Now I hit the endpoint localhost 8080/ ai. Okay. So response from f1 this got invoke. Now if you see the Jagger UI the trace app one come this is the name which I have given to my application. Okay. And here if you see the end point which I hit. This is the endpoint which I hit. Okay. And when you drill down this information you will see something like this trace ID is span. So currently only one is span. Okay this span has trace ID the same parent one only is span created. So this is the app one right when the request enter it created a span. So span what is the operation / ai. / API is the one for which this span is created reference generally within this reference it contain whether it's a child of which span so currently it's not a child it's a parent only so that's why it is empty start time and total duration at what time this span got started and whenever it was finished so it has like duration how much time overall this took from start to when it got ended how much time it took so this all information is present inside this. Okay. And we see that when we invoke an endpoint, information comes in into the Jagger UI. Okay. So we are able to set up our application one properly.
