=== Manual Span Creation (3469s - 4051s) ===

And yes, we can create manual span also. So if you don't have to rely on just input or you can say that incoming HTTP uh this is outgoing HTTP request and also this is nothing but an incoming only you you want that hey I am doing some DB operation here. I also want to make sure that how much time this operation has take. So I want to create a span so that I can uh have certain information. Yes, we can create manual span also. Very easy. So I told you that micrometer expose certain endpoints. So tracer is then interface. Okay. So this comes with from an micrometer library. So we just need to auto it. implementation comes from the hotel uh open telemetry SDK which we are using. Okay. So we need to use this library and this is just uh for testing purpose I am creating one endpoint. Now the first important thing is that I am creating I am getting a current span. So using this endpoint tracer dot current spen what is the current spen which is active. If there is no you might get null. If there is any current span you will get here. So this will act as a parent for us. Okay. So here if you see when I did this I get this. Hey there is already a trace ID. Okay. See because when a request hits / API/ test/ span it already created because that's an incoming HTTP request. So it already create one trace ID and one span. Now I am internally trying to create a new span, right? So there is already a span. So that is the span ID and that is the tracer ID. So we already have one for the current span for the incoming request. Now I am creating a new spin. I am creating tracer.next spen. Next spin will create a new spin. Okay. And I pass the parent span. If you don't pass the parent span, it will do two things. It will create a new trace ID and new span ID. But if you pass the parent span, it will reuse the trace ID, it will generate a new span, but it will also mark that hey, this is your parent span. It has all this information. Okay. So when you do next span and you pass the parent span now the trace ID would be this you will get a new span but that new span would be a child of this one and I gave certain name manual child span whatever the uh span name you want to give. Now I have to start the span child span dot start. Now very important part now when you start it start the span only timer will start that okay you are starting the work now but it will not set the current span as this child span so what I'm trying to say current span so let's say when HTTP incoming HTTP request comes a New span is created and that is set as current span. Now you are creating a new span. So this was a span one. Now you are creating a span two. Even though both have trace ID 1, trace ID 1 and the parent here parent span is span one only. So but this new span even though you have started its timer is started but it is not set as current span. Current span is still your span one. So let's say in future when anywhere else you are try to fetch the current span like this you will get this parent one not the exact what you have created okay so if your requirement is that okay whatever the child span I have created if this is just for tracking the timing I don't want to make it uh current span Don't set this tracer dot with span child span. Okay, if you don't want uh to change the current span info but if you want that yes whatever the span I have created internally possible that more span would be created so that proper child relation should come I need to you need to update the current span because let's say when you started a child task here when you started the work and internally you are creating another span Internally also you are creating another span and when it will try to do hey get the current span what it will return older one. So it would like hey this is the child of this one no this is a child of this span because within this it is creating right right. So if you want a proper hierarchy update so you can update it with like tracer dot with span and pass the child span. So this does two thing. So whatever the object will return span in scope you will see that it does two thing. It has current it update the current span information and it also maintain old. So here if you see from start in quick which one is the current span trace ID is this and span ID is this. This is for the incoming HTTP request. incoming HTTP request. Then after that we have created a new child span. So when we created a new child span so here if you see the trace ID is used same because we have used the parent span here but it created a different span. So that's fine. Now you started it and timer is started. But I also wanted to update the current span information. So when you did tracer do with span and pass the child span. So my current span will become this one 137B1. Okay. So here if you go inside this one 137B1 is my now current active span and here it also maintain old context. Old context would be your this one 64 its parent 641. Okay. Why? Why it maintain the current and the old? Because now let's say your child started now it's doing certain work so I just use sleep 70 so that yes certain work is done it takes certain time and in finally I am closing this I am closing the span in scope and I'm so closing the child span so when you do close this span in scope doc close what it will do is it will pick the old context and whatever the span it has it will make it current Now, so you can say that it reset it because this span is closed. This child span is closed. Now, which one is the active current span? It's parent. So, its parent information is present into the old context. That's all. Okay. So, that's all we have to do and let's understand with demo. You got it right. What we are doing is here there is like very basic thing but we are all on same page and have right information. So that's why I've written so many things here so that when you read it later things get clear to you. So in one one minute I have the parent span information. I created a child span from the parent so that they have a same trace. I started the child span. So it timer got started and it timer get stopped here when I'm closing it. So timer stop. Now I said the current span is this one. But this also hold information about the old like whatever it span was going on. Now once the task is completed we have to close the span in scope. So once you close it, it will this span is closed right. So the current span need to be updated right. So it will internally update with the old context itself. So that is done by this internally dot close itself. We don't have to worry about but we have to only make sure that it is properly closed. Okay? Otherwise your span even though your span is finished your span is end the current span is still not updated. It will still show that current span is this. So make sure that you properly close the span in scope and the child span also. Okay. Now let's say that I have this in
