=== Logs vs Tracing (0s - 497s) ===

Hey guys, welcome back and today we are going to do distributed tracing. Okay, so let's start without wasting any time. So let's first understand the difference between logs and tracing. So logs contain plain text or JSON to record what event happened during the processing of an API request within the application. Very important within the application. So logs is for individual applications. Let's say that you have three application app 1, app 2, app 3. So whenever any request come to a particular application, this application maintain its own logs. Okay. So logs is for application wise. Okay. So we can record information warning error which is crucial for our debugging purpose. tracking errors or failures with the stack trace and monitoring application behavior for unusual pattern. That's what we do, right? We uh if there is any warning set even if it's not a warning, we always log the information. For example, you hit an endpoint slash user. Okay? And this is your user service. This is your application. And you hit this endpoint. So while the business logic run you might want to print certain information. So you put log that hey user created that's all. So this is an information. So when you see the log of this API okay for this application you will see that yes for this API hit a specific API at a specific point of time yes user created. So you got certain information. Okay. So logs can record API level details such as incoming request, what request comes, what events happen while an API request is being processed in an application and outgoing response. So it's like when this request enters, what is the request I received? What all the events happen which I want to which I think it's a crucial in the logs. Okay. So I will uh log that for my information for my debugging. Okay. And after that once it is done the output which I which I'm returning that also I can log. Okay. So these all things which generally we do in logs. So there is certain limitation that logs do not show API request end to end journey across microservices. Let's say app one, app two, app three. So when you hit an endpoint slash user. Okay. So it traveled from app one then app 2 then app 3 like so it traveled all these three application. So logs do not show end to end journey across microser. No. So it will you have one log for this. You have a specific log for this. you have a specific log for this. So when you are looking at f_sub_1 locks, you will get information about f_sub_1. When you are looking at app2 logs, you get information about app 2. What happened within an app 2. Similarly, when you look at the logs of app 3, you will get to know what happened within app 3. But end to end, you won't know what happened. You won't know by looking at this log itself. F1 log, you don't know what next happened. Okay, which service got invoked. Okay, so how much time other service took? You don't know. You all have information about this one particular service. That's all. End to end visibility is not there in the logs. If you are working with this log app 2 logs, you don't know whether app 3 is got invoked or not, right? How much time app3 took and all. So that information is not present inside a law. Only those information which you have logged that would be present. Okay. Automatically it will not tell that okay this request now moves to app 3. Only if you have put a logger that hey I am going to invoke app 3 and once the app 3 gives you the response then you have print that okay I got a response from app 3. This much time I took. This is something which you are logging. Okay. And that help you for your information debugging or tracking purpose. But how this request is traveling across how this request is traveling across multiple application that logs do not track. Okay. And that's where the tracing comes into the picture. So we'll see that. So now here if you see that if a request goes through order service and from order service go to payment service each application have their locks independently. So order service like okay order created for user ID 55. Similarly when the request reached to payment service payment service will lock something like payment timeout user ID for 55. So payment timeout happen. So when you are in the order service you would be able to see the logs. when you are in payment service you you would be able to see this log but there is no relation between these two you won't be able to find out hey is this the same endpoint they both are talking about or not is this the same API request which I hit / user is this both log logs talking about the same thing for the same request you don't know there is no relation between these two logs okay so we cannot easily tie them together like both these logs belong to a same API request or not or how long each step took that also we don't know that's where distributed tracing comes into the picture so understand with this diagram that let's say we have so many microservices microser one microser 2 microser 3 4 5 like this so when a particular API request test comes how it travels through multiple microservices in its life cycle. So we will get to know with the tracing. So with this one I can with the distributed tracing with the tracing I can know that okay when uh this API got hit these all microservices got involved and this is the path or sequence in which this services get invoked and how much each service took time which service is the one which caused the failure or you can say that it's a bottleneck all you think can identify with the tracing Okay, so tracing tracks the path of request across the microservices shows highle info like which service call which service, how much time each service took, a status quo. Okay, whether it's a success, failure or internal validation error, internal error likewise. But remember that the tracing does not store detailed logs. So that's why there is a difference. Log is like a detailed log detail events what is happening within an application once the API request entered the application. But tracing does not care about the detail logs. It only care about like which service called which service, how much time each service took and the status code. Okay. So you can understand with this diagram right. So it's more mainly focus on the track of the API request. So to achieve this to achieve this
