=== Modern Distributed Tracing Flow (Micrometer and Open Telemetry) (1642s - 1918s) ===

into the picture. So here if you see overall architecture is same but the micrometer is the one which has replaced this spring cloud sleuth. Now micrometer what it does is it provide a tracing APIs only. So it's a interface mostly. Okay. So this is as an interface. Okay. You want to create a trace let's say this is the API /race. If you want to create a span this you have to hit this API / span for example. So this is an this micrometer provides an API. Then we have a SDK. So open telemetry SDK is very popular nowadays. Okay. So open telemetry why it's very popular. You can use any SDK or you can say that any implementation of the micrometer. Even the brave provides an implementation for this micrometer APIs. But again if you use brave you might have to uh backend might be your zipin. Okay. But open telemetry is like a vendor agnostic. So all whether zipkin jagger graphna they all understand open telemetry protocol. So open telemetry protocol OTLP means like certain format which it uh generate the span into. So they all understand that one. So they have exposed their endpoints that okay uh we we accept the span let's say hotel/ span. Zipkin will say that okay if you have a span into OTLP format protocol you can use this endpoint I accept it so today all major backends accept this protocol OTLP protocol open telemetry protocol okay and that's what make it vendor agnostic okay so you don't need you don't have to code specific to zipkin or jagger or graphna all you have to do is you just change the endpoint and it will connect it will pass start dumping the spend to a specific back end. Okay. So now let's say this is your spring boot app. In a spring boot app you need one micros service library and so this microser library will bring the APIs then you need its ed SDK. So I would you can use any any SDK which is an implementation of micrometer but I would say that go for open telemetry because it will we will use OTLP which is a generic you can change easily between any back end you want. So you need one library for open telemetry SDK which is nothing but a implementation for micrometer. So this will take care of creation of trace ID, creation of span ID and helps in propagation of trace ID to different microservices. The same thing what we have discussed here. But earlier it was like very specific brave was sleuth has you can say that hardcoded brave library. Now it's like uh we have this interface and whichever you want now you want open telemetry open telemetry use it SDK okay now what it will do is it will dump the span completed span into this inmemory Q now this span uh in format would be OTLP protocol you can say that okay so now there would be one OTLP exporter. So we need this library also because this exporter we can configure that hey after every 5 second you can listen to this queue after 1 second you can listen to this queue whatever the span is there take out and whatever the URL we will configured here for the back end just dump there okay we can now configure any back end whichever we want and from this one they can now create a UI a specific UI and we can see that let's see the implementation it will become more clear. So first thing is we need to choose backend service and make this make the server up. So either you want to go with Zipkin, Jagger or Graphna. I am going with Jerger because this is nowadays more popular. So but yeah all are good. You can go with anything whichever you want. So I am using docker to install and run
