=== Old Distributed Tracing Flow (Spring Cloud Sleuth) (1240s - 1642s) ===

So now let's go one level deep. How is distributed tracing works? Okay, let's see the old legacy flow. So in the old or traditional way we will you we used to use a spring cloud sleuth which uses brave library which is compatible with zipkin backend service. So what are these terms? So see let's say you have your application and you are using this spring cloud sleuth library. So now this spring cloud suit youth library what it does is it takes care of creation of trace ID. It takes care of creation of span ID helps in propagation of trace ID to different micros service. So all these three things it's done by this spring cloud slleuth. So creation of trace ID. So when a request entered your application so it sees that okay this is the fresh request coming so I need to generate a new trace ID and it also uh create a span ID for it now let's say your application is invoking another application app 2 so it also takes care of propagating of trace trace ID so in the header in the payload code in header it will add hey this is the trace ID and I am your parent span parent span and this is the trace ID so that app 2 knows that hey I don't have to create a new trace ID one trace ID is already going on I need to use this trace ID and I can create my own span but my parent is this okay So in the payload header we are adding trace ID and parent span ID right that also propagation is done by spring cloud slute. Okay now I told you that every span is started. Okay, after that whatever the task you do was done span need to be end. Okay, so with that we can say that this span is completed. Span started span ended. Now we can get to know that okay this span took how much time? This operation took how much time? Okay. So whenever any span is completed, it is put into one a synchronous in-memory queue. Okay. It is done by the spring cloud sleuth only. Again only completed span. When I say completed dispense means span which was started performed its operation and it was ended. So span is completed. Okay. So each span has information that okay what's the trace ID what's the span and what its parent span okay let's say this is the minimum information it has but it has more information like what API it invoked what task it does we can have certain more information in the span okay so whenever any span is completed it is put into this in-memory asyncq now there is something called zipkin exporter So spring cloud sleuth is using certain brave library which is specifically for zipkin zipkin back end. So zipkin back end is what? So here now you have multiple span span one span two a span three let's say span 100 now somebody has to stitch it all together right so who does this there is certain backends like zipkins z uh jagger so there and graphna so these are different backends which has the logic that once they receive the spans then they can create a beautiful nice tree out of it okay let's say okay trace ID is one T1 this is the trace ID every each span has information about I told you trace ID span ID and also what who is the parent span so now with that it can create a tree okay this is the parent span this is its child this is its child and this is its child this is the service get invo so they can create a tree out of this spense information so Whose does this back end like zipkin jagger graphna these are different so spring cloud sleuth was very very specific it's an old traditional right it's very very specific made for zipkin only so that's why there is something called zipkin exporter is also used which task is to read this in-memory queue fetch out the spans which are completed from this queue and push it to the zipin back end and from this zipin back end we can generate a UI where we can see the tracing behavior. Okay. So in the old legacy flow also if you want some other back end let's say you don't want zipkin you want jagger or you want grapha there is certain hack you have to do it's not very straightforward because spring cloud sleuth used brave library which is very very specific for zipkin so see all this span information is in some format right And let's say zipin understand JSON format. I'm just saying for example some other let's say graph now understand some XML format and this is just for example I'm saying so everyone understand some different format they have their own protocol. So brave library was very very specific for zipkin. So whatever the format it generate this span information whatever the format it is in it is very specific for zipin only and that is one reason for it to get deprecated that's my view because in modern like there are so many new popular backend has come Jagger is one of them graphna is one of them right and with old spring cloud solut is very difficult so that's where the modern flow comes
