=== Topic Creation (312s - 630s) ===

Okay. Now, step three, what we are doing? We are going to add a topic. So, if you remember from the cluster setup, we created a topic using the shell script. But, we can also create through our producer. So, whenever producer application will start up, we can have we can create a bean where during a startup it will check, "Hey, this topic exist or not?" If not, it will create a new topic for us. So, I have created one class, Kafka producer config and annotated with @configuration and this I'm adding one bean. Okay? So, the name you can give anything. Order events topic. I have given order events topic. And what type of bean it return new topic. This is we have to return. And there is a builder topic builder which is present. We can use it to create a topic. Topic builder .name What is the name of the topic you want to give? Topic builder .name topic name .build. So, when your application will start, it will check, "Hey, does in the cluster order events topic is present or not?" If not, this topic will get created. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Now, you might be thinking that, "Hey, this is very very simple, right? Only like we have to give the topic name." So, just recall it. When we set up a controller and broker we in there .property files, we have added so many default. Like in controller properties, if you remember the config properties, we set up how many partition. Okay? And uh how what is the replication factor? What is the replication factor? We have already provided there in the controller.properties. And in the broker we have defined the default like segment size. And also the cleanup strategy. So, that's why if you just only provide the name all these default would be picked from the respective property files. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; But Spring Boot also provide us a way to override these defaults. Okay. So, here the same way this is just another example, same example but with the configuration I am showing you that Sorry. topicbuilder.name the topic name here you can provide any topic name. Now, dot partition. So, it's a builder. You can builder in low-level design you might have seen the builder design pattern. So, it's just following the builder design pattern at last it will doing build. So, dot partition. So, here we will give the partition number. Now, here if you see that controller.properties Okay. So, there we have already defined the default. If you don't add it here it will be picked from here. Controller 1.properties, controller2.properties we have already provided the default. Replicas we have already provided, but we can override it. Similarly, the config topicconfig.retention.milliseconds.config. So, if you don't provide it it will be picked from the broker. So, if you see remember from the broker we have we can have like log.retention.hours 168 7 7 days, right? So, here in the millisecond I've just provided the same 7 days. For how long the logs would be retained. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; topicconfig.cleanup.policy.config whether you want uh delete or compress minimum in-sync replica how many uh ISR minimum in-sync replica we have already uh seen in the cluster like so that we can divide provide into the broker dot properties file but we can also override here similarly segment byte size like here we have given right log dot segment dot bytes 1GB the similarly you can provide it here also override it here. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So the whether you just provide a name topic name or you can provide all the default set in the config properties or you can even during the topic creation you can provide all the configuration like this too both are fine. Okay now during application startup it will check if a specific topic exist or not if not it will create the topic request. Okay let's see that.
