=== Send Event (UseCase 2) with Custom Serializer (1682s - 2212s) ===

case two also we will keep everything same. All I have to show you the custom serializer. Okay? So, serializer, the key is still I am a string, and the value custom. We will write a custom serializer. Okay? Partitioner, now this time let's say we have to send without key, so that a sticky partition should be used. Rest all same like previous. So, no change in controller. I've just exposed new endpoint with no key, and it will just invoke the service layer. No change in the controller. Auto wiring is done properly. Okay, the Kafka template. But you might be thinking that Okay. This will like since we are using this default its properties will come from dot properties file. Because for serialization phase, partitioner phase, record accumulator all the properties for the Kafka template will be built from application.properties. Correct? So for serializer key and value I have currently defined here itself. Key is a string serializer and the value is this. Now com.eda.producer. So I've created a new class order summary serializer. So I've provided its path. This is my new class order summary serializer. And if you remember from the previous uh I have told you that all serialization need to implement this serializer interface. Once you implement this interface, you have to provide the override of this method. That's all. So the topic and the order like order in the senses your object. So it's here it is just nothing but a T. So if it is an order type, you have to just use that here. Now I am doing nothing special here. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; All I have done is that my requirement is that hide the sensitive field. So see order have so many information pojo order ID, customer ID, product ID, quantity, amount, status. In the byte when the byte is converted Okay, I don't want all these fields to go. So that's what I am doing that I am creating a map. So key value Okay. So summary.output order ID whatever I have put like this is the order ID. Summary.output product ID from the order I take out the product ID. That's all. So, I'm creating a map. This information I need to send. Okay, to the broker. Only these two, order ID, product ID. That's all. I don't want to send customer ID, amount, the status, everything. And after that, I just do object mapper {dot} write value as bytes. So, normal Java. We can convert an object to a byte like this. Okay. So, this is my custom serializer. So, in application.properties, value serializer, I just provided this my custom serializer. Only this change. Rest all application.property, I kept the same. Okay. Internally, if you remember from the Kafka producer.java class, it has serializer phase, right? So, when it invoke the serializer, it will invoke this now. For the value. Because for the value, I have provided this one. And that's all. The everything rest is same. Kafka template {dot} send, your topic, and without key, right? We wanted That's why I went So, the override method which I'm using for the send is doesn't have a key. So, topic and the value. That's all. And here I am handling the callback. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Done. Now, the question might have comes to you that, okay, what if my producer has like so many like you can say that a publisher, some is publishing order, some is publishing something else. Okay. So, like here in the application.properties, if you have put order, means my value should always be use this serializer only. Can't we have more than one serializer? For example, like I have a controller class one, controller class two here. Order summary controller. So, we have order controller. Let's say you have some other different controller. Sales controller, something something something. So, we can't we have application.properties only one. Either you can have a serializer for order or for sales. You can't have like comma separated right here. What to do when you have more than one you can say that need a serializer for the value. Okay? We can use at the rate bean. Very very simple. The same thing like in the at the rate configuration class in at the rate configuration class I have just added one more bean. So, here if you see in at the rate configuration class I have added one more bean here, this one. So, I am creating a map of properties first. Kafka properties. build producer properties. So, what it will do is from application.properties all the Kafka producer related properties it will load it first. Start with all the producer properties from application.properties. It will load it. Now, we will only override value. Okay? So, props So, this is the props.put producer config.value serializer class config. So, this enum has so many uh if you open this class enum class, you have so many values. You can just select one whichever config you want to override. So, I want to override value serializer. Okay? And what is the value I need to uh for for this serializer? This class, order summary serializer.class. That's all. Okay? Now, we have just created a default Kafka producer factory and put this props here. Okay? Because Kafka template, we have to return this object, right? Kafka template object. So, we have to create right new Kafka template. This. We have to provide So, open this one. New Kafka template, if you open this, it need producer factory. Okay? So, producer factory is nothing but interface and default factory producer factory is not the implementation of it. So, that's what I'm just doing. So, this is an implementation of producer factory. So, in that one, I have provided this property, props. Where I have overridden this value and just feed it here. Return. Now, this [snorts] bean we have to use. Okay? Now, wherever you have to use, for example, in order service, order producer service, I have to use a specific bean, this bean. You can do auto wired. Okay? And put a qualifier, custom serializer Kafka template like I put custom serializer Kafka template. Okay? I have put it here. And this one, custom serializer Kafka template. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So, the Kafka So, now, whenever you want, okay? When you have more than one Kafka template exist, you can use like this. So, here, I have also Kafka template. So, this will read the properties from application.properties. Okay? And another I have is custom serializer Kafka template, which I have provided here. It will read from the application.properties. After that, it has overridden some values. The value serializer. And this object is created. I have just auto wired that object here. Now send without key, I am using custom serializer Kafka template. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Okay? And in application.properties you can put some default one. Let's say JSON. In application.properties I'm putting JSON serializer.
