=== Bootstrap Server (90s - 312s) ===

the bootstrap brokers. If you remember from the previous topic, I told you that setting up the producer is just like a one line of code. If you have to send a message from producer to broker, all you have to just do is Kafka template. dot send. And provide the topic name, key, and the your message object. All we have to do in the configuration, all we have to provide is this. Kafka bootstrap servers. Okay, so these are both the brokers. So, you remember from our cluster setup, we have two brokers, broker one and broker two. Okay, so both the broker address I have added here. So, this is required. So, why it's called bootstrap server is say initially when the first time you are starting the producer. Producer do does not know like, okay, for this topic A partition zero, which one is the leader? Which broker is leader? For topic A partition one, which broker is leader? I don't know. Producer don't know. Okay. So, the bootstrap server major is that you can say that and the first time we are starting the producer, it will invoke any one of it. It will invoke any one of the broker and ask that, "Hey, can you provide me the metadata information?" Now, broker generally broker also have metadata information cache, but let's say if they don't have, it will goes to the active controller, fetch the metadata, and then return to the producer. And producer also cached it. Now, from the next call, it doesn't need this bootstrap server. It just check the metadata information which this producer has. Okay. For topic A partition zero, it will check its metadata, who is the broker, it will directly invoke it. The address information would be present into that metadata information. So, that's why it's named bootstrap. Only the first time. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Uh only the first time producer needs it. After that, it maintain the this metadata information cache. Now, the question might come is that, "Okay, this metadata information which producer stores, how frequently does it refresh?" So, see this one. So, we can configure that. &gt;&gt; [clears throat and cough] &gt;&gt; Sorry. Sorry for this. So, we can configure this. spring.kafka.producer.properties Okay, so currently I have configured 5 minutes. So, after 5 minutes, this producer will update this metadata information. It will ask broker again, "Give me the latest metadata information." Okay? So, you can change it you want, and even if you don't write it, default is 5 minutes only. Okay? So, that's why I mentioned specifically for producer to run. All you need is this one application.properties. Bootstrap server. After that, you can just simply do kafkaTemplate.send, and you are able to send a message to the broker.
