=== Send Event (UseCase1) with JsonSerializer (854s - 1682s) ===

&gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Send events. So let's see the use case one. So if you have followed the previous video, you know that when we do send, what are the stages? First is serializer. Second is partitioner. Third is record accumulator. Then compression. Then sender thread. Okay? Generally, we don't need any configuration. Like all the configuration we want is this. The bootstrap server. That's the only one. Okay? But since we have already know the internals of producer, we can configure this all five steps also. So this is the use case one. This is what we wanted. Sorry. [snorts] So in the serializer step, we know that it serialize two thing, key and value. So, the key I wanted to serialize as a string and value JSON. Okay? So, means uh my value or the object which ultimately go as a event is the POJO class. So, it gets serialized with JSON. JSON serializer. Then in the partition, we have to use send with key. So, I'm just telling you the use case which we have to implement. So, we have to test with send with key so that the related event goes to the same partition. If the key is same, it should always pick the same partition. Then in the record accumulator, what we can configure is the batch size, the linger, overall buffer. Overall buffer for the batches. So, you know that we can create many batches. Now, each batch size we have uh specify, maximum they can have is 32 KB. But, overall size we also have to limit, right? We can't have like so many batches. Okay? So, the maximum size is 32 MB. Okay? So, what does it mean? When the 32 MB is reached, the means you have created so many batches that over the whole buffer which is kept for the batches, 32 MB is full. Now, what would happen is if you try to do send, you won't be able to do further. Because when you try to do send more, means you are trying to add more information into existing batch or you are trying to create a new batch. So, this send will get blocked. Hey, wait. Memory is full. And how much time it should wait? We should also configure that. Let's say 60 second is the time we are telling that wait for 60 second. If after 60 second also this there is no space freedom then fail. Okay? So, this is the record accumulator we have to set up. Compression we will use any one of them snappy gzip or there are so many. So, yes we will not just go with uncompressed. We will compress it. And in the center thread in flight we have to use five and the retry three. So, this is our requirement. Now, if you see that it's very very simple. First is I have just set up a controller. Just exposed an end end point so that the control reaches to our application. So, {slash} API {slash} order {slash} with key. So, this method will get invoked. What this is doing is simply invoking the producer service send with key. Nothing much. Okay, it's just invoking the service. So, this controller no nothing special. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Now, in this service the first thing is auto wiring. Kafka template the key and the value data type. So, key is a string. And the value I have a order pojo. So, this is a pojo class I have created. Getter and setter. So, that I have added. Okay? And for you know that for key I have this is our requirement, right? For key is a string. And the value is JSON. So, we for the JSON you know that we need an object. So, that's why value I have taken as an object. Order object pojo. And just provide the name. And who will do this auto wiring? A spring boot will automatically resolve this dependency. Okay? Uh when it find this, right? When you add this dependency. It will automatically add Kafka template dependency and it automatically auto wire it. Okay? &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Now, this is the method which ultimately our controller is calling, send with key. And this is the you can say that uh the object which we have. So, I'm taking out the key. With key we have to send, right? So, order ID I'm taking as a key. Now, this is the only line which is required to send an event to a broker. Kafka template {dot} send the topic we can Currently, I have hardcoded it here. We can also put into application.properties and read from there. So, topic name key and the value. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; That's all. And you remember that your application thread work is still when you do send, work is still record accumulator only. Once uh so it what it will do uh So, here it will do serializer, then partitioner, and after that record accumulator. After that your application thread just return. Okay? So, we This returns the future object. Record metadata, if you remember. From the previous video. Okay? All we have to do is that handle the callback. So, now here I'm just handling the callback. Whatever the future object it will return future {dot} when complete Now, when whenever the sender thread send the response right? This will get complete when complete. And I'm just checking here. So, here we have a result or exception. If exception equals to null, means it is success. And if you remember that if you go inside this Kafka template.send What is the future? It will send off record metadata. And in record metadata has information about partition. This event is stored in which partition? And what's the offset number? So, I'm just printing it here. But if there is an exception, what exception I got? This is normal Java. We have already seen in the Java series completable future part. Okay? How to handle the callbacks? But only the point here is that I have added a controller. Controller does nothing, just pass the request to the service. In service, I have autowired the Kafka template. Whatever the key and the value, I have just provided here. Now, using this Kafka template object, I'm invoking the send. Provide the topic name, the key, and the value. And I got a future object. If you have to handle the callback, you can handle it. Like it's depend upon company to company, their application to application, how you want to handle the callback. Okay, this is just a POJO class. And now all the work is there in two application.properties. So, this producer is running on this port. This is the name of my producer application. This is the only required config bootstrap server. I have already told you initially. So, all the both the brokers which are running on this port I have added here. Now Also, I have discussed there that okay, it load the metadata and how frequently we have to refresh it. So, by default is 5 minutes, so I don't have to write it, but just for clarity that yes, this thing exist. I have added that refresh it the metadata after 5 minutes. And if you remember from the architecture video, in-sync replicas, you can provide all 0 1 and all like 0 means only leader. Like 0 means like don't even wait, fire and forget. Fire and forget. One is like only leader should be able to successfully receive the event. And all means that So, we are giving instruction to the broker that once the event is published, make sure that all if if it is all, all the replicas which are present into ISR list also get the update. Only after that send me the acknowledge that yes, done. Broker work is done. We have already seen that. Now, let's comes to our requirement serializer. You know that the step one is serializing in which we have to serialize the key and the value. So, spring.kafk.producer key serializer. I already told you in the previous that we have so many inbuilt serializer. We don't have to write. So, a string serializer I'm using. For value, value hyphen serializer, I'm using JSON serializer because our object is POJO and JSON serializer can work with the POJOs objects. Okay, so serializer done. In the record, partitioner, what we have the requirement is that send with key. That's what we are doing it. We are sending it with the key. Okay? Now, record accumulator the first is that the linger. Linger should be 20 ms, so we have defined here. spring.kafka.producer.properties.linger.ms Okay? So, maximum producer will wait for 20 ms to fill up the batch. After that, it will close the batch and make it ready to send to the broker. Each batch size. So, this is I'm setting the batch size that 32 KB. Okay? And overall buffer for the batches, overall. Okay? So, spring.kafka.producer.properties.buffer.memory. buffer.memory. So, I have provided 32 MB. Okay? So, once this is full if you any further invoke the send, it will get blocked. Okay? So, till what time it will get blocked? This. spring.kafka.producer.properties.max.block.ms. Just initial. Then the This is the config. max.block.ms. 60 second, it will get blocked. If in 60 second there is no space in the buffer Okay? After 60 second, the request will immediately fail. No space. Okay? So, see all configuration we have set for the record accumulator. Compression and we have to use one of it. So, yeah, compression. So, this is just an initial. This is the config.compression.type. I am using Snappy. Sender thread retry. spring.kafka.producer.retries. We have to do three. So, internally whenever the sender thread find any transient failure, like network, leader change, etc. Okay? It will automatically retry three times. And the maximum in-flight request is five. This configuration we can add. So, see. If we don't know the internals of producer, like this configuration is like mugging up. Why we are setting it? We don't know. But if we know the internal of producer that there are five, six steps, and for each step there are already default setup. But if you have to play according to your component need, then you have to deal with all of this. Okay, because this brings reliability, resilience. Okay? Whether you want all or one, like what you want? Like again, I'm saying only you would be able to use application.properties properly if you know the internal working, otherwise your application.properties would only have this one, bootstrap server. And you might be thinking it works fine out of the box, but there are a lot of default happen in the back. Okay? Now, let's see the use case two. Use
