=== Why ConfigurationProperties is preferred with RefreshScope (1140s - 1508s) ===

Now let's come back to the point where like we told that I am using configuration properties. Why I told you that when I'm saying that dynamically refresh it does two thing it destroy the bean and recreate it. So when it when the old bean is destroyed you will lose all the object state all the work you have done on that object that gone. So that's why it's never recommended to use refresh scope over controller service. It's not safe. Okay. So you know that from the over I like I've already covered this at the red configuration properties topic. So you know that this on whichever the pojo class we have write this at the rate configuration properties or you can say that in another term at the rate configuration properties is a pojo which only contains configuration. So it's stateless only properties are there. Okay. So this is safe even it is dynamically refreshed means it is destroyed old object old bean is destroyed and new bean is created. It's stateless. Okay. So that is okay. That is safe. And you can understand this with example. Let's say now if I use refresh scope over a controller class. Now see what happens. Why I use configuring properties right? Why I use configuration properties? Now let's say the old way in the order controller itself I have put refresh scope. And you know that earlier in the central uh configuration video we were using this reading the property file like add the rate value and using this message here and I have a counter here just for the better visualization. Now I am using notice that I'm using refresh scope over this controller. Okay. Now first time you call at the rate fetch uh /fetch. So it will properly fetch the endpoint. Hello from order dev properly. Okay. Counter is one. Now second time I am calling counter is notice that counter is two and same hello from order dev. Okay. Currently I am not changing anything into the central config but I invoke the refresh endpoint at the order service. Now what the refresh endpoint do /actuator/ refresh now I'm calling it at the client the uh configuration client so it does two things first fetch from config server second refresh bean with at the rate refresh scope. Okay. So first it will try to fetch from the config server like all the new value. So it fetch it and second thing is like it will try to update all the beans which are marked with at the rate refresh scope. Okay. So now when I have done this so currently you see empty here because uh here the old value and the new value is same. So no updation happened. But again internally it has destroyed the old bean created the new one but the value is same it is not updated right so that's why you see empty I haven't changed the centralized uh central config uh this property value but it follow the proper sequence first it might have called config server fetch it and then it will dynamically refresh means it deleted the old bean of which one now the old bean of order controller because refresh scope is used on top of this bean. So its object is old object old bean is destroyed. It will create a new bean with the new values. Okay. So now when you try to invoke at the rate fetch endpoint again. Okay. So currently you will see the same value because I haven't updated it. But all I wanted to show is that see the counter value. So counter value was two. Now if you're invoking it again it changed to one. Why? Because when you have done refresh, it deleted the old object old bean and created a new fresh. Okay. And you know that by default beans are singleton. So it should goes to three from two. Okay. But it creates a new object that's why it is starting with one. And that's why I that's the reason I used add the rate configuration properties for the refresher scope. I don't want to have a recommend even this that use refresh scope over the controller or service layer never right because let's say your controller class is taking a request and suddenly somebody calls this /actuator/refresh that bean is destroyed your request will be dropped okay so again again very important in interview als Also never use at the refresh scope over a controller or service. Always used over a stateless object or stateless bean like a POJO which is like for configuration right and one such is like add the rate configuration properties. This is nothing but a POJO for configuration only. It's a stateless. It just have property, configuration properties, fields and values.
