=== How RefreshScope internally works (519s - 1140s) ===

Okay. So if you have not seen the actuator video before, kindly check it out because this approach which I'm going to tell you is use this actuator functionality. So here if you remember if you recall from the actuator video there is something called custom actuator endpoint like we can create our custom endpoint through at the rate endpoint annotation. Okay. So the same thing spring cloud config has been used. So spring cloud config has used this property uh at the rate endpoint. So here if you see this is the framework code of the spring cloud config. So they have a class refresh endpoint and they have used this at the rate endpoint refresh. So means they have exposed one endpoint slash activuator / refresh and internally here if you see they have one write operation. So I told you right we have already seen that in the actuator what's right operation? So it's a post kind of an endpoint. Okay. So when with it is called with the post this method will get invoked and what it does it try to refresh. So it has logic that if it is running within a config server then it fetch the property from the central config. If this refresh endpoint which has been invoked if this is running inside a config client like order service it will do two thing. It will first invoke the config server, fetch the property and then look for at the rate refresh scope beans. Okay. And then recreate them with the fresh property value. Okay. So you can say that the it depend on the context where we are invoking this endpoint. If you are invoking this endpoint at config server then config server task is to fetch the it will do refresh is like fetch it from the central config and if you are invoking this endpoint in the client like order it will call server config server first f the endpoint and then all the beans which are marked with refresh scope it will recreate them that it will Okay. So quickly again is that at the red refresh scope only task is to mark the bean which need to be dynamically refreshed or dynamically refreshed means the old bean will get destroyed and new bean will get created with the latest value. Okay. And when when it when the dynamic refresh will happen. Okay. some refresh event has to be happen and when that refresh event will happen we have to invoke an endpoint in case we are using the actuator approach. Okay. And which endpoint actuator exposes? So spring cloud config has exposed this /actuator/refresh and it does the refresh or you can say that it creates a refresh event. If the refresh event happens within a config server, you know that config server task is to fetch from the here we can see that config server task is to fetch from the central config. So that refresh will do. If you are invoking the refresh at order service it task is to call the config server fetch it and all the beans which are marked with at the rate refresh scope delete it and create a new one. Let's see that here now with an example. Okay. Now what to do that? All we need to do is add the actuator dependency. So in config server we have to add an actuator dependency. So in the C we have already seen that pom we have already have the config server dependency. All we are adding is actuator dependency. Okay. And uh you know that from the actuator video whenever there is an endpoint we have to expose it. If you are trying if you are planning to use any actuator endpoint we have to expose it. So I'm just exposing it. Management.end endpoint. web this endpoint I have to expose. Refresh. Okay. You might be thinking what I'm doing here why I'm going fast because we have already seen this in the actuator video. Everything is same. Okay. So we are just exposing the refresh endpoint. Okay. That's all we have to do in the config server. Similarly in the order micros service we already have the dependency for the config client. All we have to add is dependency for the actuator and also we have to expose the refresh endpoint because we are going to invoke /actuator/ refresh here also. Okay. And here I mark the bean which I need to dynamically refresh. So here this order property bean I want to dynamically refresh. So that's why I marked it with at the rate refresh scope. Okay. And no change in the controller. So controller exposes / order/fetch endpoint. Now let's see that I started the server again. Okay. So first central config has this uh changes order - service -.propy current value is hello from order dev. Okay. So this is the value currently present. Okay. Now I started the config server 8888. I started the order server at 80080. Now first I invoke /order/fetch. Okay. It fetched the property properly from the central config. Hello from order defaf counter is one. So you know that every time you hit by default every class is single. Every bean is single singleton. So whenever you hit multiple time this counter I'm just incrementing it just for proper visualization. So when you hit /order /f fetch it properly fetch the property from the central config. Okay. So here our currently central config has this hello from order dev. So it properly fetch it. Now I am updating the property in the central config. So I change it from hello from order dev to hello from order dev. This is updated to test reference scope. So I just change it. Now I am hitting the order API again /fetch. So here if you see again the old value hello from order dev. So you might be saying hey sh now we have implemented uh now we have annotated our bean with refresh scope. We have added the actuator dependency. Why now it is coming as old? See till now we have not invoked the refresh event and refresh event will get occur when we invoke this endpoint. Okay. So now I am first invoking the endpoint on config server and this is the actuator endpoint right which is spring cloud config exposed /actuator/refresh. So I'm first invoking it on cloud config server. So when I did this it got success. What it does? It calls the central config and fetch the latest value. Now it fetch this latest value. Our config server goes to the central config. Now fetch the latest server latest property values. Okay. So now my config server is refreshed. Now the same API I'm invoking on the order service. So now this is 8080 is my for order service I am invoking /actuator / refresh. Now here if you see that it shows the list of you can say that the messages which are refreshed which has it has fetched. Okay. So custom dot message is the endpoint right this custom dossage because it has been changed. So it shows that 200 it properly refresh this property value. Okay. And notice that this is the post operation. Why post operation? Because in the framework if you see there it uses the write operation. That's why it is post. Okay. And this endpoint / refresh we don't have to create it already. Spring Cloud Config does that for us. All we have to does is that add the actuator dependency and expose this refresh endpoint and just invoke it to refresh it. Okay. So now my order service is also refreshed. Now at after this now you call /order/fetch. Now you will see that you will get a updated value. Hello from order dev. This is updated to test refresh score. Okay. So now it dynamically updated without even restarting the application. So counter value is three. Okay. So I have not restarted it. Okay. So I just hit it again. And if you see that it's dynamically updated. So it's clear. So how we are dynamically updating through with the help of actuator endpoint.
