=== Code to reproduce and understand the issue better (75s - 409s) ===

reproduce this scenario what we are talking here. So say everything is same what we have seen in the previous video. I have a central config in the central config order service D properties currently it is this hello from order div similar config server I have set up this the same thing which we have set up before you have dependency. You have added this annotation you have added application.properties properties file properly. Okay. So this is also same no change and then order service also mostly same. You have the client config dependency application.properties also same. Okay. The only difference I do here is that I am using at the rate configuration properties. If you remember from the previous video we were having this. Okay. We were having this uh so in the controller order controller we were reading the property like this from add the rate value and the property name which comes into this message and we are using this we are printing it here. Okay. But for this refresh scope instead of using add the rate value I am using add the rate configuration properties. So we have also seen at the rate configuration properties in dev. So kindly check it out like how to use it. Okay. But it's similar like it just take out the property read the properties and just convert it to POJO. Okay. So check it out if you have any doubt with the configuration properties topic. So the same thing here if you see that I have created one class order properties and uh custom dossage is our property name right? So there we have custom dot message. Custom dot message is our property name. So prefix is custom and this field message. So custom dot message. So that property will convert it to this pojo. So it value is stored into this field. Okay. The one question might be coming at this place at your time uh at your mind would be like why why we are using at the rate configuration properties for refresh scope that I will tell you at end. Okay, we when we will discuss the disadvantage of refreshoscope there I will clear you why I specifically use at the rate configuration properties. Okay, but for now there is no difference in the behavior. If you want to use at the rate value, you can use it. You will also get the same output. If you want you can use this at the rate configuration properties also same output. Okay, the only thing is that inside this message field this property get mapped custom dot message within application.properties properties mapped to this field. Okay. And this is just nothing but a getter setter. And I'm using this order properties here. Auto add this. And now I am using this order property get message. Similarly earlier in the controller itself I have this add the rate value and using this. Now I since I have this separate class okay which is a pojo of the property. Now I have auto added and it uses this fetching the property like this right so everything mostly same like what we have done in previously now let's see now let's start all the server I started the config server and order server so my config server started at 8888 my order server is started at 80080 so first thing I invoke is /order/fetch this controller /order /f fetch. So it will print fetch order and it will print the message of this property. So currently our environment is dev right. So it will fetch this property hello from order dev. So it will print hello from order dev and currently counter is one. We will also show you. So currently this counter value is of no use. I will show you like why I have added it. Okay. Again in the end when we will see the disadvantage. Okay. So currently this is just for you can say that uh no additional benefit here of adding the counter for now at this point of time. Okay. So first thing first here is that when we invoke the fetch endpoint we are able to see that it is properly fetching the pro uh properties from the central config. Okay. Now let's update the central config. Now I update this hello from order dev to hello from order. This is updated. So I change this message value. Now let's hit the order API again. I called /order/fetch. What you see fetch order and message hello from order tab old only. It's reading the old property value only. even though the property value is changed in the central config repo. Okay. So this is the problem we are talking about until and unless you won't restart the order service again you will see only the old value only. So how we can resolve it? Refresh scope can help to
