=== Challenges of EDA (1220s - 1547s) ===

But what are the challenges of event-driven architecture? Currently everything looks good, right? We have so many advantages that there are so many challenges and these are critical like you can say that whenever you are working in the highle design part of u any any uh question where you have to use eventdriven architecture mostly the questions or challenges comes into this part. The first challenge is its eventual consistence. Eventual consistency means let's say it is processing something in a sing manner. Now when you hit it let's say get call you might get a stale data a stale or old data but eventually when you hit another after some time you might get latest updated data. So it's an eventual consistence. You might get a stale data if you try quickly but eventually if you try after some time you might get latest up-to-date data duplicate events. See the event routers guarantee at least once delivery. So it can deliver events more than once. So duplicates are normal. So we have to handle it properly. Ordering problems. Now let's say that your publisher has published two events but the consumer got first event two and then event one. This is very very important problem. Okay. So this need to be handled very well. Okay. So we'll see that we will share real world problems how we will pick one topic and we'll try to build out all these things. Okay. But today we just highlighting the challenges and each challenge we have to solve. Okay. So when we will go with let's say Kafka and when we will build Kafka then after that we have to go one by one all the challenges there would be more. So here I have just listed around six seven but there are so many so we have to take one challenges and see how it has to be industry standard to solve those challenges. But I wanted to just mention here that there are so many challenges. It's not like EDA is perfect. Another is schema evolution. If you break the schema, all consumer will crash. Right? Because I told you event has a specific schema which has all the information and consumers consume this events. So if you change something in this schema, you remove something or you updated something. So consumers might need to be updated also otherwise they will crash. So you need to maintain the versioning properly debugging complexity. Distributed tracing across a syncing hops are little difficult because now everything is happening inc manner. So see this is happening in a singing manner. This is happening in a singing manner. This is happening in parallel. So when parallel and comes into the picture debugging is not that easy. Okay. So yes, debugging got a little bit complex or here poison message generally one bad message can block the event router itself. So I don't I won't go into this deep what is poison message here now because it will complicate the things and to understand the poison message like I need to tell the framework first like whichever we are discussing but understand that there are because events are published to this event router let's say if one event is bad okay and nobody is able to consume it and what if that event is is still kept into the event router. Okay, so very high level you can say that there are possibilities that one bad message also can block the event router too that generally known as poison message. So that challenge is also present. Then again another challenge we have is operational overhead. You have to monitor the consumer lag. Okay. Hey, you are publishing an event five per minute but consumer is able to consume or process only one per minute. So how much delay [snorts] is lagging? Monitor the que is Q is able to maintain the events which are getting published or not. Okay. What is the throughput partitions and all? So you need to maintain everything size and all. So there is an operational overhead also. So it is not like you just use EDA and everything works out of the box. It is little you can say that uh proper understanding proper knowledge is required otherwise these challenges are so critical that instead of getting advantage we might uh get into more trouble. Okay, our DB could get easily corrupted very easily. Okay, this order problem itself if not handled properly it could easily corrupt the DB itself.
