=== EDA Example in Distributed Microservices and its Advantages (526s - 928s) ===

eventdriven architecture is highly used in the industry. Okay. And again this is just an example I am showing you whatever this order service inventory service. It's not like this is the exact flow for an order. So consider this just an example for differentiating what between rest and the EDA event driven architecture. So now in the event-driven architecture if you have to just design the same thing into this part. So we still have a user order service. Now here we have an event router. So see at this since this is the first part of this event-driven architecture either it could be either Kafka, Rabbit MQ or any different router you can say that but here currently you can say that it's a generic term I have I have used event router okay and then you have a let's say payment service, inventory service, notification service. Now we have everything same but apart from that we have another uh you can say that kind of uh platform like a event router. Now what happened the first is user place an order. Now here if you see that I am doing a realtime processing still check the realtime inventory. Yes, if inventory is present save order status equals to pending and it will publish an event to this event router that order created. So one event is published. So this is an event event publish order created and it send the response to the user order is accepted. Okay. So your first part is completed. So now here if you see user got the response very early and till now what we have done is we have just stored the order in the pending state and we have just publish an event that order created event uh to this event router. Okay. And the response has been gone to the user that order accepted. Now the second lag which is a sync now it's doesn't have to be in real time. Okay. So now as sync and parallel processing here in this box. So now the event has been published right to this event router what order created. So what it will do this event router it will push the order created event to all those who are interested. Okay. So now let's say that payment service is interested in this event and inventory service is also interested in this event order created event. Okay. So now here if you see that it just push the event it don't tell anything what you have to do it just tell that hey order is created now whatever you have to do do it now payment service what it will do is it will try to process the payment inventory service try to reserve the inventory and once done they will also publish their event hey my payment success is done okay and reserve inventory. Hey, I am able to reserve the inventory properly. It just publish an event. So these are also an event. Now event router in the third line whoever is interested into payment success event it will push the event to that. Now let's say notification service is interested in payment success event. So it just push the event. So now here if you see what event router is doing is services publish an event and what event router is doing is pass the event to the other services which are interested. So it act as a mediator or a broker. Okay. So now let's say in this one uh when payment service publish an event that hey payment has been success this broker this event router what it does is it just pass this event to whichever other service are interested in. So notification service is interested in this event and it now got the payment success event. So it send the mail okay and it also send this payment success event to order service and it will update its status to completed. This is just an example to show that in case of event-driven architecture different microservices are talking with each other based on events. Okay. So the same flow we are dividing or you can say that modifying into this EDA and this is one perfect use case where EDA can be used. Okay. So what are the advantages of eventdriven architecture from the above flow we can see very simple like whatever the disadvantages of synchronous chain we have seen generally are the advantages of event-driven architecture. One thing is loose coupling no direct dependency on one another. Scalability service can scale independently like now you can scale payment service as much as you want. Uh it can process payment like depending upon the event it can accept so many events. It can process the events. So now it can scale independently. Okay. Better resilience temporary issue do not break the whole system. Now let's say that reserve inventory is failing but the whole system is not down. order is still getting accepted. Okay, maybe for temporary purpose it is failing but once it is get up all the pending events it can go and start working on it. So your system is not completely failed. Okay, replay we can reprocess the old event that capability is there. Improvement in latency. Yes, for sure. Uh because you are doing ing processing, parallel processing and even the response time to the user is improved a lot. Now user don't have to wait till this whole let's say 5 second. Now user has to wait only let's say 1 second. Here it got the response. But now because of using parallel processing and all uh everything will get complete sooner. Okay. So latency get improved.
