=== Use Cases of EDA (1547s - 1774s) ===

Now what are the use cases of event-driven architecture? Like sometime what happen is we need to have a mindset like okay when I should go for rest when I should go for event- driven architecture. So there are see many scenarios but high level I will give you four. One is that one event and there are multiple consumers for that event. Then it's a very clear indication that we have to use event-driven architecture. Let's say for example order is placed then inventory has to do something payment has to do something email notification service has to do something the analytics team has to do something. So you can't order can't talk with all of them. Okay. So it can publish an event and you can do whatever you want to do. Okay. So it's a very good use case for the event-driven architecture and that's why I have used that for an example longunning business workflow. That's the same thing that here if you see when transaction is started and when your transaction got end you can say that. Okay. So order, payment, shipment, delivery like everything should be up successful and then only your order placement is done. So it's a very long running business flow. Okay. And it's a failure prone. Okay. It can be you can say that something can be failed in the midway. Okay. And this flow takes a lot of time. So if the flow is not in the critical path then we can say that it can be broken into multi-step which is a failureprone. Okay. So you can always think critical part non-critical part. So critical part should be always real time. Okay. Like here I am doing that. This is my critical part. Check the real time inventory. I don't want to do it in a singing. When I get the place order request, I check real time stored into the DB status request to pending publish an event. This is all my critical. Okay, that's why I'm doing in a real time not in a sing. So once this is done then my non-critical part starts which I can go for eventdriven architecture that okay even if it takes some time even let's say it can take 2 seconds more or let's say 4 seconds more it's not like something is very urgently waiting so consider that as a non-critical part okay so we can think of that it's a good use case for EDA Another is eventual consistency is acceptable. If you are have a use case where eventual consistency is okay, then it's a very good hint that EDA might be used. realtime analytics like data is continuously coming and you have to work on that data then definitely it's an EDA use case like multiple events are continuously coming coming and you have a consumer which continuously consuming those events and doing some realtime analytics okay data need to be continuously processed then is also a use case of EDA so this is very high level four use cases of EDA but we can have more and this is Just one introductory video of what is EDA before we jump into a specific event router and most probably I will pick Kafka for it. Okay. Okay guys, see you soon. Bye.
