=== What is Event Driven Architecture (67s - 256s) ===

eventdriven architecture. So considered it as a system design style where services do not call each other directly instead service emit an event and other service react to those event. Okay. So you have one service you have multiple services you can say that they never call directly to each other. They just publish an event. Hey, now you might say what is an event? When we are saying hey they emit an event you might say what is an event then event I would say in a simple way that something a fact that something happened in the past. Okay. So see there are one major difference between event order and not order say command. Event order command and query. Event means something happened in the past like order created right? Command is like you are giving the command. Hey place an order. Place an order is a command but order created is an event which happened. Okay. Query is means that you are fetching something like hey fetch me the details of the order which are placed. So these three are different things. So when we are saying that service emit event so event are immutable. They cannot be changed once created. Okay. So it because they are already created in the past. You can't change it. What h exactly happened and it's a past tense like order created. Okay, we are not saying place order. Place order means you are giving a command but we are not giving a command. We just telling the fact what has happened in the past. Okay, so past tense is describe what happened not what to do and self-contain. So every event has all the information needed to understand it better. So once so now service emits event. So it emits an event and this event is listened by some other services. Okay. And this event contain all the information okay and based on that these services react on top of it. Don't worry about it. uh but only thing I uh I want you to understand at this point of time is that no two services are communicate directly with each other. They are now interacting based on events. One emit an event others consume those event. Okay. And this event is something which is immutable like you can't change it. Order has been created. It's created now. You can't undo the order creation part. It's order is created. Now you listen to that event. Okay, order created. Now you decide what you want to do. Okay, but you can't change it. So in rest distributed microservices,
