=== REST Example in Distributed Microservices and its Disadvantages (256s - 526s) ===

the same example I would take for an order creation. Let's say you have a user service, you have an order service, you have payment service, inventory service, notification service. So I have taken an example of four five services. Now in the rest distributed microservices what used to happen is user place an order. Okay. Now in the order first it will do it will check the inventory real time whether inventory is there or not. Okay. Then it will try to process the payment. Once the payment is done it will reserve the inventory and after the inventory is done it will send the notification. So these are all different services and this order services is now talking with each of the different services to complete the flow and after that it returns that order has been placed successful. Now in this part if you see here there are many disadvantages we can easily see. So problems the first problem is availability. All service must be available at the same time any service down request will fail. So in this part let's say to complete this flow this should be available this should be available this should be available this should be available. Let's say even if inventory goes down this flow cannot be success. Okay. So the first thing is availability. Second thing is latency accumulation. Your total latency is that sum of all the service latency like how much time this place order request takes then this plus this plus this plus this. You got it right? So your latency is now accumulated t1 + ts2 + t3 + t4 like this cascading failure. One slow service can bring down the other service and entire flow itself. If for example your order service is fast, your payment service is fast but your inventory service is too slow then there are is a casket failure because let's say you are sending it 10 requests but it only able to handle five requests for five requests it is denying. So those five failure will cascade to the payment service and cascade service will uh you can say that uh the payment service will cascade it to the order service. So there is a cascading failure. Okay. The tight coupling. The tight coupling in that in the sense if you see the order is talking with payment. Order is talking with inventory. Order is talking with notification. So order has the knowledge of all three services. How to interact? What response I will get and many other things. So there is a very tight coupling in this rest distributed system. And another thing is scaling issue. We cannot scale just one service independent independently. You can't just scale payment service and your order service, inventory service, notification service. Uh let's say it's not scale that much. So what I mean to say you scale based on load. So you just can't scale payment service that okay earlier it was taking 100 requests per minute. Now you increase the scalability and it now it accept accepting 1,000 requests per minute. Even though it is accepting thousand requests but what about inventory it is not scaled right? So it will only have the capability to handle 100 requests rest 900 will fail. So cascading failure impact will come on this only. So scaling issue is there. So now here if you see that there are so this is just you can say the top five I have listed down when you have a flow like this when I say that flow like this means long running flow. So consider this as a wrong long running flow order placed then you check the inventory then you process the payment then you reserve the inventory then you send the notification. So this in the long running flow means multiple services are included. Okay. So in that the rest distributed microservices has various challenges and these are just top five. So generally in those scenario
