=== Offset Commit strategies (973s - 1243s) ===

Now we have is like offset commit strategies. One thing might be coming that okay what are the different strategy let's say I have told that consumer one has read partition zero of let's say topic uh order events after 500 it decided that okay I need to commit but what is the strategy why after 500 or what are the different strategies so one is auto commit. So you can uh tell the time auto doit interval dot milliseconds that after every 5 seconds you have to commit. Okay. So let's say time zero consumer polls [snorts] get even from 0 to 99. At time one consumer processing the events. Okay. And after 5 seconds it will autocommit the trigger. But there is a problem that what if consumer crashes at 50. Since autocommit has already happened means a detail has been gone into this consumer offsets topic that hey this group notification group for this topic let's say order event topic this partition partition zero 99 till it is processed now because it is auto commit happen right so it is already added into this consumer offset topic. Now if consumer crash at 50th and it will restart and it will fetch from this topic. Hey till where I have done it will give that hey 99 you have done you have to start from 100. So you have lost certain information. So this is risky. Auto commit is always risky. So best strategy is that manual command you decide when you want. So one way is that in a batch let's say you done the polling you got 100 events at a time okay you process all event and uh once you completed then you push okay once all done then you push and then continue with the next batch. So what happen is that even if you crash okay let's say you crashed at 70 so you will still previous information is let's say zero and you got like 0 to 99 badge but after with while you are processing the 70 you got crash and when you restart and you again fetch hey what was the last I have processed you can say that zero you have to start again so it's only possible that you might have to uh duplicate processing. Okay. So in the manual commit apart from batch there is also is that every instead of let's say you complete the full batch after that you do a commit after every event process you try to do commit but that is not recommended because generally Kafka is used when there are lot of events. Okay. So with every events it's not recommended that you have to make a call to the server. Okay. So appropriate batch size we have to find out like uh based upon our business and this is the recommended approach. Okay. So we know about little bit about consumer and consumer group. Don't worry the part where we have discussed about multiple broker because now we are slowly going into the advanced level of the cluster. That's where the multiple broker comes into the picture. At this point of time my expectation is that I am able to actually the definition should be clear for producer topic partition broker consumer and consumer group. Now you can say that the real Kafka comes into the picture the advance. Okay. What is Kafka cluster? Kafka
