=== Consumer and Consumer Group Definition (25s - 186s) ===

part consumer and consumer groups. So there are two different things. So producer already done. Kafka broker which is also known as server also done topic we also know about it and partitions. So now here if you see we have consumer group and consumers within the group. So we can have multiple groups. So let's say I have created one group notification. Another group I have created analytics and you can join any one of the group which you want. Okay. So let's say I have joined consumer group uh notification group. I can also join analytics group. Okay. So that is possible but you have to be part of one of the group and it has one rule. One important rule is that consumer in one group different consumers in one group can only read different partition. Okay. So multiple consumer in a same group cannot read same partition. Okay. And the rule number two is that different consumer in different group can read same partition. So now here in this case let's say that so this consumer is part of notification group so it is reading this partition one similarly this consumer is part of analytics group it can also read the same partition that is possible but this is not possible that in the notification these two consumer is reading the same partition that is not possible okay and like you have very multiple scenarios like very simple is like you have three partitions Three consumers all reading different partitions one to one consumers are less than partitions. So consumers can take care of more than one partition. Okay. But here if you see that no two consumer in a same group notification let's say the all part of notification group. No two consumer of same group reading the same partition. for they are taking care of different different partitions but they can take multiple partitions. If consumers are greater than partition it is possible that some consumer might be idle. Okay this two I have already told you multiple consumers can read same partition if there are part of different groups. Okay.
