=== Leader Follower Partition (1354s - 1753s) ===

partition okay for each partition for each partition I'm talking about one broker is leader and others are followers example understand this with all everything with an example let's say You have created a topic order events and you have a partition three partition zero partition one partition two. Now there is something you also tell the replication factor how many replicas you want. Okay. So three partition of topics order events will be created like we have tell order events I want three topics uh three partition partition zero partition one partition two. Now for each partition I have said two replica means there should be two copy. So partition zero has two replica is like one leader and one follower. Partition one, two replica. One leader, one follower. Okay. Partition two, one leader, one follower. Two replica. And all these, so total how many partitions? Six partitions. Okay. Out of the six, three are leader, three are follower. Okay. So all these six partitions are distributed among the brokers. So now here if you see in the Kafka cluster we have three brokers. Broker one, broker two, broker three. Now let's say that broker one has this topic order events. It has this topic order events and it host only partition zero. Okay. So this topic this broker this topic it host one leader only partition zero is the leader here. Okay and partition zero leader here. So it has one follower right. So one follower would be into different broker. Okay. So partition zero for this event for this topic. So order events topic partition zero follower is present into broker three. Okay. And its leader is present into broker one. Similarly partition one of topic order events. So partition one. Huh. So here if you see partition one leader is present into broker two. Broker two has this topic order event. It hosts the leader partition one. Okay. And it has a follower, right? One follower. So it would be into different broker. So let's say broker one has this follower. Similarly, partition two, one leader, one follower. So partition two leader is present into this broker three and it is follower into different broker it is present here. So now here if you see that no broker holds all the information. So broker one has partition zero leader information and this is just a follower backup of the partition one. Okay. And but partition one leader is present into broker two. So this leader is the one which actually responsible for read and write into a particular partition. For example, you are interested into order events and you want to write into partition zero. This producer want to write into partition zero. Now who will write it? Partition zero follower is there. Partition zero leader is there. Always leader is the one which is responsible for read and write. Only when leader fails then only followers comes into the picture. They become a leader. But till then you can say that followers are nothing but a standby which only task is to stay up to date with the leader. That's all. Okay. So now if you remember from the producer okay so what uh it has a topic when it publish an event it has a topic let's say order events and let's say key let's say order id and then your uh record some JSON record and if you remember we were doing hash of this order ID and how many partition are there in this topic order event let's say currently three and it got let's say partition one so now this producer need to know that which broker host this partition one for this topic so order events okay partition one leader it need to find out the leader which broker host the leader of partition one okay because then it has to pass the request to that broker only okay the same thing I told you in previous video about consumer consumer need to publish an event to consumer offsets topic okay and that consumer offset topic has 50 partition so that's why they were doing hash of group ID mod 50 and if they find out that okay partition 23 which broker host the partition 23 leader because leader can only take care of right And that's where they have to connect to that particular server. So what is the leader responsibility? Leader responsibility handle all producer rights, handle all consumer reads, maintain the partition logs. Okay. And coordinate with follower. Follower responsibilities. Replicate data from leader. Stay in sync with leader. Ready to become a leader. If current leader fails, do not serve client. Followers never serve clients. Only leader does. Okay.
