=== Offset Commits in _consumer_offsets topic (186s - 973s) ===

Now this is important that each consumer group maintain partition wise offset independently. What does that mean? So here if you see that in a consumer group let's say notification you have consumer one, consumer two, consumer three. Now let's say consumer is reading partition zero of topic order. Let's say consumer three is reading let's say partition one of order topic. So after reading let's say it has read till offset 500. It has read till offset 300. Now it need to store this information. So that's what I mentioned each consumer group maintains partition wise offset independently. So now let's say that this group notification for this topic this partition this many offsets are processed successfully. this group let's say notification within a notification this topic for this topic this partition let's say partition one this many events are processed successfully so here if you have noticed that we are maintaining group wise information not consumer let's say consumer one of group notification this topic order topic this partition has retail offset let's say 500. So we are not storing consumer wise we are storing group wise itself. Why? Because let's say in future this consumer went down. Okay. And if new consumer comes up let's say this consumer need to consumer two now need to take over. What it can do is it can simply ask hey I am belongs to this notification group tell me that this event this topic order and this partition till how many events are processed. So it can simply find out from this information that okay for this group notification this topic this partition till 500 it is process you can start from 501 okay so this information is maintained. Now another important question is that where does this information is stored. So very very important and basic part I would say that always have that Kafka major strength is is partition topic plus partition. Okay and partition is something where actually data is stored. So if anything has to be stored in Kafka it make use of topic and partition its core strength. So this information is also stored in topic partition only. Okay, no difference. So which topic there is a topic internally Kafka will create for us is consumer offset. So see this that this is the Kafka UI. uh when I started the server in my system I uh opened the UI after starting the server and here if you see I haven't created any topic yet but if you see in internally it is created not created by me so it created this offset_consumer offset and how many partition by default it created 50 for us okay so all this information is stored in this topic Okay, no matter how many consumer groups you have, okay, all everybody stores maintain this information offset related information they are stored here in this consumer offset like which topic which partition till what point has been processed successfully. Okay. So now understand with this example I have a producer I have only for this example let's say I have only one broker Kafka broker one okay and this Kafka broker I have one event uh one topic order events and I have created three partitions partition zero partition one partition two and this is the internal topic which has been created uh by Kafka okay this one_consumer offset and 50 partition it has created. Okay. Now let's say consumer one is taking care to read this order events topic and partition zero and let's say it has read till 500 offset. Now it want to store this information. What information it need to store? Hey this group notification this offset order events this topic partition zero till 500 are processed events are processed successfully it need to store this capture this snapshot let's say okay so now what it will do is it has to where where this information will store it will store in this topic_consumer offset Okay. So this is the message it will publish to the broker. Okay. Hey this topic I want to store this information notification group ID notification information topic partition and the committed offset till where I have process. it will store this information. Okay. So here if you see that I am doing computing the partition like in which partition because see you have 50 partition out of this 50 partition one partition would take care of this group. Okay. So which group we can compute it also like which group is ultimately going to or which uh this group data ultimately going to which partition. So generally logic is that hash of notification group ID this group ID whatever the group you have that ID mod number of partition you have in this topic consumer offset. So we have 50. So now let's say you got 23. So means partition 23 will hold all the offset related information for this group. Okay. So you might be thinking that hey why you need to compute this partition uh information because if you can recall from the broker okay I told you that broker do not store all topic and all of its partition. No broker store only some topic and some of its partition okay only some topic some of its partition so in when we have multiple brokers let's say broker one broker two I I don't want to have multiple broker scenarios now but I think it's critical to clear this part why we are computing this partition where which partition this message should go. So now let's say we have broker one, broker two, broker three. I told you that each broker stores some topic some partition. Now let's say broker two is the one which stores consumer offset and let's say it hold partition one to partition 20. Broker 3 is one which have consumer offset which hold let's say partition 21 to partition 50 like this. Let's say this is distributed across multiple brokers. So when you know that okay partition 23 is the one where my information should go should go why I'm saying that because of this formula you compute the hash of group ID mod 50. So you will always get get same partition. So whenever you have to store your offset details, it always goes to same partition. So now you need to know that hey who holds this topic and this partition because in case of multiple brokers. Okay. So this partition 23 who hosted. So here in this case that I'll tell you I'll come to that like how it determine that B3 is the one that host partition 23 because B3 has from partition 21 to partition 50. So it need to connect to broker 3. Don't worry about this. We'll come to that later when we will discuss about cluster. But here I just wanted to tell you that why it determine this partition because it need to determine which broker it need to connect to which broker host this partition. Okay. So once it determine that okay this is the broker which host this partition this topic partition it will connect to that broker. This broker is nothing but a server. So it will connect to that server and say that hey store this information in your logs. Okay. So why this information is stored? I told you that when this consumer got crash and say new consumer comes up they can make use of this consumer offset to determine from where they have to start again. So what they will do is first let's say notification group. Okay. So what it will do is let's say server uh consumer one got crashed and consumer two comes up and it has been assigned that hey you have the responsibility of partition zero which earlier consumer one was taken care of. Now how consumer 2 will know from where I need to start. What it will do is it will first find out the partition that hey hash of group ID mod 50 this partition. Now it will find out that hey who holds this partition this topic this partition who which broker host it. So let's say it find out that okay broker three. So this consumer connects with broker 3 and say that hey give me for this topic let's say this topic this partition till where the data has been processed. Let's say partition zero in this example partition zero. Tell me for this topic let's say order even topic partition zero till where it has been processed. Now this broker can check its log for this topic for this topic. Okay, it can check the logs for this partition and return the information. At this point of time you might have confusion about this multiple brokers and all that's totally fine because those things will get clear when we jump to cluster but at this point all I want you to have understand is that what is consumer group what is consumer okay and they store offset related information that's all I wanted that you clear this part so they store the offset that okay this group this topic this partition till this it is processed. So it is stored in one of the topic. Okay. And whenever any server consumer got crashed they can fetch the details from the topic. Okay. And uh whatever the different brokers and all those things that things will get clear. Okay.
