=== what is SerDes and why Streams needs it (0s - 252s) ===

So in the previous video of Kafka stream, I have told you about different sources. KStream like how you can do that builder.stream the topic name and the serializer deserializer. Similarly, KTable global KTable. We have already seen that and their purposes. Okay. Now today in this part, I would go one level deeper into this Serdes S E R D E S. So this is nothing but a combination of serializer plus deserializer. So S E R D E S. Okay. So serializer and deserializer combined into one object. That object is you can say called as Serdes. So we have already covered serialization deserialization as part of normal Kafka producer consumer. We have seen that. So serializer is that serializer is that which convert Java object to bytes. Deserializer is that which convert bytes to Java object. So Serdes like combine both into one package. Now you can ask like what's the need into the Kafka stream? So see the Kafka topic it stores the data in bytes. The RocksDB it stores the data in bytes. So whenever we need to read from the Kafka topic or RocksDB, we need deserialization, convert bytes to Java object. And whenever we have to write data to Kafka topic or RocksDB we need serialization, convert Java object to bytes. You know that right? Topology has source processor nodes sink. So source is like reading from topic. So you have you need deserialization capability. Sink is like writing to Kafka topic. So you need serialization, convert Java object to bytes. Similarly, apply for the RocksDB also. So, these are the five places in topology where we need serdes. Serdes. We need to read from Kafka topic, we need deserialization. Sink, we need to write to Kafka topic, we need serialization. Repartition, we will see that. So, if you remember from the architecture video, I told you about the sub-topology, which is like a repartition. We need to write to Kafka topic, so we need serialization. Okay, internally it create a Kafka topic, so we need a serialization. Similarly, RocksDB write, so when do you write into the RocksDB? Like KTable, global KTable. So, when we write it, we need serialization, convert Java object to bytes. Okay? Another uh processor nodes also has many uh methods which writes into the RocksDB like count, which we will see that later also. Similarly, RocksDB read, when do we read from the RocksDB like join, which is within a one of the method into the processor. So, it read from the RocksDB. So, we need deserialization capability. So, in short, whenever you have to read or write from Kafka topic or RocksDB, you need serializer and deserializer. Okay? So, these are built-in serdes. So, serdes.string, serdes.long, serdes.integer, double, byte array, float, short, boolean. So, these are inbuilt. Okay, so it can automatically cover like string to bytes, bytes to string. So, serdes is like combination of your serializer plus deserializer. So, it has So, you can say that serdes is an object which has serializer object, deserializer object. Okay? So, whenever it has to write, it make use of serializer object, whenever it has to read, it make use of deserializer object. Okay, that's why I have used both the array. With the serdes, you can do both. String to bytes, bytes to string. Similarly, serdes.long, long to bytes, bytes to long, like this. So, these are the inbuilt serdes which Kafka Streams provides. Now,
