=== Writing our own custom SerDes (557s - 960s) ===

Shayansh, got it. But, the list you have see shown, the built-in sorts, we have a string, long, integer, double, bytes, float, short, boolean. But, what about custom Java objects? Like, what about I have order, customer object, countries object. How to handle those? So, there is already inbuilt cert, which is JSON cert. We can use that. Now, let's say for example, at this point of time I will just show you that what if we have to write our own this JSON cert. It's already inbuilt. It's already built in into the framework. We don't have to write. But, I will just show you that if we have to build our own, how to build that. So, first step is we have to write a serializer. Now, let's say I'm writing a serializer that JSON serializer implements serializer class. So, this serializer belongs to this Kafka common serialization. serializer. So, we have to implement this. Okay? And we have to provide an implementation for this override method serialize. Now, how you want to serialize? That's the logic here. You have to do that. So, currently I'm just using simple Jackson. So, object mapper write value as byte. That's all. Whatever the data So, see the my data is T is of generic type. Here in this serialize method this data is of generic type. Okay? Now, whether you have got a object uh let's say order payment, customer, whatever the object, you can pass it. That I can just write value as a byte. So, I can serialize it. Convert the object to bytes using Jackson. Okay? I am just returning bytes array. Now, the second is you have to write deserializer. So, for deserializer whatever the class name you have to give, implement this deserializer class. Okay? Kafka.common.serialization.deserializer. Now, when you have to deserialize means from bytes bytes array to Java object. Now, only thing is we have to tell that whatever the bytes we are getting in which object type we have to convert. That's the only thing extra in the deserialization. We also have to explicitly tell which object type. See, in during case of serializer, we don't have to tell object type because we are already getting the data. Whether order object, payment object, whatever the object, we just have to convert it to byte. But when we convert from bytes to object, we have to tell which object, okay? So, that's where the target class. Let's say order.class or payments.class, which object type you have to convert. That's the only extra information it required. So, we have to provide an implementation of this override method. objectmapper.readValue, whatever the data bytes array, convert to this target type. Okay? So, target type is like we will pass it. order.class, payments.class. So, convert the bytes array to this one. Very, very generic. Nothing if you are working with day-to-day work with Java, you might have already written this serializer deserializer. Like I'm using just normal Jackson. Okay? So, it has done that. So, I have written the deserializer also. Now, I have written the third serde, combination of serializer plus deserializer. So, I've given the name class JSON serde. implements this SCRD serde. kafka.common.serialization.serdes. Okay? So, we have to just implement this. Okay? Now, in this we have combination of both, serializer, the JSON serializer we have written. Deserializer, the JSON deserializer we have written. Okay? And when you implement this, you have to override this two methods. Serializer method, deserializer method, where we have to return this objects. That's all. Nothing else. All the work is done by this only. Only thing is this third with the class which we have created. It's just a combination of the serializer deserializer which we have created. That's all. And the good thing is we don't have to write this. It's already present into the framework. I just wanted to show you that we can write you can write your own serializer deserializer if you have some different logic. Okay? So now we have to just use this. Now let's say we have created this our own custom third. We can use it. How we can use it? Let's say a stream builder. Okay? Now in the builder, you know that let's say builder.stream. So I'm using I'm creating a KStream. Builder.stream, the topic from which I have to read. Now I have to provide like read write topic. We have to read from topic means we have to provide the key and value serializer deserializer. So consume with because we are consuming the data from the topic. Consume with. What should be the key? Thirds.string. And the value I am using is order third. So here I am creating our order third object. Okay? New JSON third over class order.class, the type. So this one. Okay? So this is a constructor. We have just passed the type and this type ultimately goes to the deserializer. Yeah. And ultimately we have this method internally now framework depend. I am using consume with. Okay? So it will make use of that okay, I have to this use deserializer method and it will use ultimately invoke this deserializer method. Okay? So usage is very simple. Now once you have created the third, create this object and pass that third itself. Okay? Similarly, when I am producing it to the output. Two, we are producing it to this output topic. Produced with my key I am using cert. string, but value I am using as order cert. Okay, this one. My custom. Okay. So, internally it is producing mean it has to write. So, it will internally make use of serializer. It will return serializer object. Ultimately, it will invoke the serializer method. Okay. So, you can write your own serializer deserializer also. Now, one more doubt doubt might have
