=== Handle Errors during Serialization and Deserialization (960s - 1596s) ===

come. Hey, what would happen if serialization and deserialization fails in Kafka stream? So, this is very interesting also. So, see. What are the use case when deserialization can get failed? So, deserialization means you are reading from the topic, let's say. You are reading from the topic. So, now let's say topic has value this. Order ID this. So, this is a JSON string. But you are reading is at let's say long. That will definitely fail. It won't be able to uh properly deserialize it. It tried to read the JSON byte as a 8-byte long. So, it you will get an exception. Or corrupted data. Let's say some garbage bytes that are not a valid JSON. So, you are trying to read a proper JSON only. But the JSON is not correct itself. In that case also, it won't be able to parse and exception will come. So, now the question is what would happen if deserialization fails? Serialization also we will see. So, there are three ways to handle it. The first is already inbuilt log and fail exception handler. So, see here in this one, there is a class uh record deserializer. Okay. Now, in the record deserializer, here if you see deserialize. For each record when you are deserializing, if any exception comes, it catch. Okay? Now, when it catch, handle the deserialization failure. Now, it will see. It is handling. Now, there are three ways. Okay? So, now I will show you first this, then we'll come back to that one. The first way is log and fail exception handler. This is the default. So, in application.properties, even if you don't write it, it would be using this. Otherwise, explicitly just for learning purpose, you can add this like spring.kafka.streams.properties this one. org.apache.kafka.streams.errors.log and fail exception handler. This one. What it do? It will log the error, throws the exception, your stream thread dies. And if all thread dies, your application dies. Okay? So, it will not proceed further. So, let's say your application has currently, let's say thread equals to two. So, means two threads are running. So, if any except any this thread is running multiple task, so if exception comes into this, this thread gone. If this thread is also gone, your application dies. The second one is log and continue exception handler. Log and continue. Log the error, skip the bad record, continue proceeding the next record. The bad record is lost forever. So, in application.properties, you have to just put log and continue exception handler. But, I won't uh suggest you that you use this because you will miss the bad record forever. The third is custom. Like you write your own exception handler. Now, you decide what you want, whether you want to continue, whether you want to fail, or whether you want to put into dead letter queue first and then continue. Now, it's in our hand. Okay? So, very simple to write it. So, whatever the class name you have to give, let's say I've given custom deserialization handle. You have all you have to do is you have to implement this deserialization exception handler class. Okay? Now, you have to provide an implementation of this handle method. Now, whatever you want to do. So, see, you have a consumer record, like your record, and the exception you got. Processor context is like the same consumer record information plus additional information like which thread is running, which application is running, some more information. So, now you can handle like what you want. So, like I just here just a demo purpose, I have shown that I have put an atomic long that error count. Whenever any error comes, it just keep on incrementing it. Okay? When it reach to a particular limit, max error, then it will fail, otherwise continue. Okay? If limit is not crossed, okay, it continue. It is skip the bad record. But as soon as limit crossed, I have to fail it. Okay? So, deserialization handler response {dot} fail or {dot} continue. Now, here if you see in the code, record deserializer, you got the response. Okay? Now, it will check. If the response is deserialization handler response {dot} fail, it will throw exception, stream exception. If not, it just drop the record. That's all. Just continue. Okay? So, whenever you have to fail fast, use this {dot} fail. If not, do continue. But you can write your own custom logic. Okay? And there is also one more method which you can uh you have to provide you can it can be empty or what generally this method is like you can read so this config is like you can read the configuration and you can update it. Now let's say I have put it into the configuration that stream.max.deserialization.error. If this is empty put default 100. Otherwise, whatever the configuration I have given in application.property, use that as a max error and that will I will use it. So it's just like if you want to read certain value from the configuration or you want to change the value. You can use that. It has all the configuration value data. Okay. Generally, it is currently this method is empty generally. You don't generally change but let's say if you want to have certain like if it is null, have some default value. Clear? Custom is clear, right? And once you have written your custom class, custom handler, then all you have to do is application.properties, you have to just register it. Like your class path proper. Now it will you can use it. Now in serialization, what does it means? We are writing. We have a Java object. Now we have to write into a bytes form. So what are the ways it can goes? Wrong output sort. So we have long value. Let's say we have value two but we are trying to produce with like a string. So class cast exception will come. Order object can't be serialized. So sometimes what happen is circular reference. You have an object uh reference one points to reference two, reference two again points to reference one, so it has a circular reference, so it won't be able to serialize it properly. So you will get a mapping exception. So there are different ways serialization failure can also happen. Now there are two ways to handle it. One is the default one, which is default production exception handler. So, it In the default, it always fail. Your stream thread dies, and if all thread dies, application dies. So, in application.properties, if you don't write it, this will be used. Otherwise, explicitly also you can write is that org.apache.kafka.streams.errors default production exception handler. Okay, any fail your thread will die itself. If all thread dies, your like an application goes down. Okay? So, we don't have to write this default production exception handler. It would already be there. I'm just showing you what it might be doing it. So, it has a class default production exception handler. It might have implemented this production exception handler class. So, if we have to in future, we have to write our own custom handler, we have to implement this production exception handler. And it we have to provide an implementation of this method handle. That's all. We have a record which we have to produce, and also the exception. Now, in case of this default production exception handler, we know that it might be doing production exception handler response.fail. Okay? We don't have to write this just like what internally it's doing that it always fail. But, I always suggest that write your own custom handler. Like, if any failure happen, what you want to do. So, I'm just showing you some example that if there is any event or the record which is like you it's okay to continue it without it. Let's say it's record is too large. You have or let's say a particular size of a record. But, if it is too large, okay, you will say that continue. Don't stop the thread itself. But if record is proper valid, I am failing the thread itself. Don't proceed forward. Okay, so this is just an example. So custom production handler implements production exception handler. Okay, we have to provide an implementation of this. It has This method has both producer record and exception. Now you can do whatever you want. Whether you want to fail you, whether you want to continue, or whether you want to put into some queue and then continue or fail. Only these two options are available. Okay, and also configure like if you want to read certain property value and you want to change or not. Generally it is empty. So once you have written your custom handler production handler, all you have to do is update your application.properties. Default production exception handler is your custom production handler. Okay, so this will how your serialization exception would be taken care. Clear? So generally I have covered this topic just to make sure that we don't have any doubts with search. Like we are continuously taking name that consume with search. dot. string search. dot. string during RocksDB also. So there should not be any doubt like what is search. Okay. Any doubt, let me know in the comment section. Now in the next one we will see different You can say that our processor processor nodes like multiple functions we have, so we will see that. Okay guys, thank you. Bye.
