=== SerDes Priority (Default and Explicit) (252s - 557s) ===

serdes priority. So, there are two priority. You can say that low priority and high priority. Then the low priority, what comes is the default serdes. So, in application.property, if you give like kaf- spring.kafka.streams.properties.default.key.serde. So, see, everything is a key-value. So, we need serializer-deserializer for key, we need serializer-deserializer for value. So, one is for key, one is for value. So, in application.properties, so for key, we have provided that default key serdes like serde is string serde. Like you have provided this a string serde. Similarly, value serde you have provided whatever the serde you want to use out of this. Whichever you want to use, let's say I'm using a string serde. So, now we have provided here in the application.properties. So, what would happen? What's the advantage we will get by applying to the default serde? Without default serde, what we have seen, I have see if you have watched the previous video where in the source, KStream, KTable. So, in the KStream is like builder.stream topic name. So, we have to read it from here. From read this topic. So, we have to provide the serdes like you have to provide the serializer-deserializer. From KTable, we have to provide the serializer-deserializer because we are reading this topic. Similarly, in the KTable, we also maintain a RocksDB, and for RocksDB also, we have to provide key and value serializer deserializer. Similarly, global K table. So, the thing is, without default serdes, we have to specifically mention the key serializer or deserializer or value serializer or deserializer every time we cross the boundary, like we have to read from topic, read from RocksDB, likewise. But, when we do, when we use default, like we have applied into application.properties, this can be your minimal code. builder.stream, this, that's all. You don't have to provide this serializer deserializer. Similarly, this will go here, this all things will go here. Okay? So, this will become your minimal. You don't have to provide explicitly every time. But, this in Kafka stream, this default serdes is very less frequently used. Why? Because see, in the Kafka stream, we have pipeline. You read from source, then it goes to a processor pipeline, which does lot of thing, lot of changes. Ultimately, it goes to the sink. So, it is possible that the topic earlier you key was a string, let's say, value was a string. But, so, it's okay for the source. The string serdes, the string serdes, key value. But, during processing, my stream now become like key is a string, but value become long. Like, my agenda would be like total count of orders. So, now I just change it to the long. So, now here if you see, if you use default sort, it won't work for all scenarios now. So, only in scenarios where like whenever any particular boundary does like in source, we are reading from topic. In processor, you are reading in RocksDB. In sync, you are reading in output topic. Everywhere, you have like same key value, then you can go for application.properties. Otherwise, I would say that never use default sort in case of a stream because as part of a stream, it change your data change a lot. Okay? So, always use explicit one. That's what explicit one has the highest priority. So, if you're reading it explicitly tell that yes, treat key as a string, value as a string. KTable, treat key as a string, value as a string. When you're writing into the DB, your serializer would be a key as a string, value serializer would be a string. Likewise, explicitly we have to tell. And that set is the highest priority. Clear? Okay? So, the same thing. Explicitly we are writing during source, during sync also. So, like we are writing into the topic order.dot2. We are explicitly telling that produced with your key serializer and the value serializer. Use a string a string serializer. Okay? So, RocksDB file. So, explicitly we have to tell everywhere. Now, one question might have come. Hey
