=== Difference between OAUTH2 and OIDC (296s - 660s) ===

we have to understand what is a difference between OAuth 2 and OIDC. Now you can ask me, hey, what is OIDC? Why it comes into the picture? So again, first the difference is full form is OAuth 2 is like open authorization. OIDC stand for OpenID Connect. What is the purpose used for? OAuth is used for authorization. Meanwhile, OIDC is used for authentication. What is the difference? See here in this OAuth 2 we grant secure third party access to user protected data. Means third party app, like in this case uh we are saying Insta, can have access to my let's say all the Gmail emails, my calendar data, depends upon what all the APIs are exposed. Okay? So, it can invoke the endpoint passing the token and fetch all my data, protected data. But, OIDC is mainly specific specific for authentication only. So, it's a layer built on top of OAuth 2 only. And enable the third party app to verify the identity of the user by an authentication server. Okay? So, understand the difference with this. Here, the only difference comes at this part. So, here it get the token, right? Once it get the token, if you are using plain OAuth 2, you can use this token, pass it to this resource server, and you can access whatever data you want. Right? All the protected data you can access of mine. But, with the OIDC, whatever the token you will get, generally it is known as ID token. ID token, which is again in the form of JWT only, but this ID token has all the info which is required for authentication purpose. You don't need to call any API and fetch any other data. In the OIDC, this token itself has all the limited very minimal information which is required just for authentication. Okay? This token ID token is not understood by resource server. This ID token is specifically for this third party app only that, "Hey, from this token you will get a minimal information, through this you can authenticate the user. But, this ID token cannot be used to access my protected data. But, with the OAuth 2, whatever the token you will get, with that you can pass it to the resource server, they understand that by passing it to authorization server. And then they can you can fetch the protected data. I hope you got the difference. OAuth 2 is like for authorization. You can fetch the protected data. For OIDC only for authentication. Uh once the token is received by the third-party app, they don't generally pass it back to the resource server to access more data. The token itself has all the information to require to authenticate. So token is generated as access token which is generally opaque or JWT form. Okay. So consider like a GitLab use case. Generally they return opaque token. Opaque token is uh not understood by the third-party app. Only it is understood by the authorization server. Okay. So use by third-party app to call the resource server APIs to access user protected data. Okay. So that's what I told you in the plain OAuth 2. Once the token is received, either JWT or opaque token. Okay. So this token is used by the third-party app to fetch the to call the APIs through which they can fetch the protected data. But here in the token generated by OIDC is that ID token which is JWT form only. Plus since it is built on top of OAuth 2, it also get us access token also. So it gives us both the capability. If you want, I can go ahead and call the API also and fetch more information. Otherwise, this ID token itself is contain all the information for authentication. So ID token is a JWT token which is meant for third-party app only. Remember this. I am emphasizing on this that it is meant for third-party app. This ID token is not sent to this resource server. It is not sent. Once it get the token, it has the minimal information. It has the minimal user info which can be required for authentication. Okay, we will see that. But first remember the difference. So the scope The scope is like read, write in the plain OAuth 2. In the plain OAuth 2, generally scope is at read, write. Like you can even call post APIs for writing. You got reading means you can allowing the third-party app to call the APIs only get APIs. Or you want to call even allowing them to call the write APIs. Here it is OpenID. The scope is OpenID. OpenID means it indicate the authorization server that this third-party app is only want to authenticate user. Okay? So there is a scope called OpenID. When the ID token is generated by the authentication server, authorization server, it will contain very minimal information in the token JWT. Okay? Which is required only for authentication. No read, write access is given. In the token itself, very minimal information is sent.
