=== How to Register our application with Authorization Server (660s - 883s) ===

Okay? If the difference is clear, let's jump into the implementation. So what is the step one? Step one is the third-party app. Now in this case, who is the third-party app? Our Spring Boot app, which we which we are writing. So third-party app, we have to register it so that in the response we can get client ID and secret key. So third-party app registration to authentication server. This is the first step. So third-party app is our a Boot app. Authorization server, currently we can pick a Auth0 and GitLab. Okay, so we can register ourselves and get the client ID and the client secret. So, we'll see that. So, here if you see if you open the GitLab, there you will see application. In the settings, you will see application. Inside that application, you give the application name. I give my Spring Boot app. The redirect URI, right? The redirect URI is that here if you see once the owner authenticate and provide consent, it redirect. It calls a redirect URI and passes the authorization code in the response. So, we have to set that redirect URI. And the scope which we have to select. So, I have select the open ID. Because I am only interested in authentication. Okay? So, only also gives read-only access to the user profile. Right? So, not much very minimal information. Grant permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect. So, specifically for authentication. And once you save the application, you will get client ID and the client secret which you can copy it from here. Okay? Similarly, in the OAuth Auth0 registration, what we can do is we have to provide the name. Okay? And here we have all the OIDC is uh turned it on. It also provide what signature algorithm which we have to use. I choose RS256 RS256, which is like a private public key. And uh like in the JWT, whatever the signing algorithm would be. So, here I'm defining that one. We have already seen that in the JWT uh part. And ultimately, I will get my client ID and the client secret here. Okay? So, we can see here like So, here if you see, I open the GitLab. So, now in this part, if you go to the settings, click on edit profile. Okay? So, there you will see application. If you click on the application, you will see this like you can add an application. I can add a new application also where you can give a name, redirect URI, and what is the scope you wanted to select. And once you do save application, it would be like this it will come like your client ID and the secret. Secret is like you can copy it one one time. After that, it will remove from here just for safety purpose. So, you can renew the secret. Okay? So, the old secret would become invalid. And the scope I choose is open ID, authenticate only. Similarly, for the Auth0 also, it's the same thing. You can open Auth0 and you can create add new application and then you can add it like this. Okay? So, here what I'm doing is I am registering myself, my application, and I'm getting a client ID and the client secret. Okay? So, this ID, what I have to do is
