=== Understand in depth, how stateful OAUTH2 flow works internally (1500s - 2370s) ===

What exactly how it is working behind? Till now, we we don't know how it is working. Till now, all we know is that Hey, this I have added palm, I have added application.properties and security conflict. That's all. It worked out. But, how? Now, let's first discover that how part. So, we have already covered this part, registration part, right? This one is clear. You can open GitLab, add application, you can register your app. Similarly, in Auth0 also, you can register your app. Now, what would happen when I click when a user click on my app. So, this is now in our third-party app is our Spring Boot app. So, now when a user click on this localhost:8080 login, hey, I want to login. I have to show this two pages, right? Two authorization server where user can login with. So, what internally happen is So, default login page generating filter get invoked. Inside that, there is a method called generate login HTML. So, there it has like if it is a OAuth 2 login enabler, we have to show this page. And from where this get this information? So, here if you see something like OAuth 2 OAuth 2 authentication URL to client name. So, when you start an application, right? This get filled up from application.properties. Okay, so this is has all the information. So, it just iterate over it and just show this. Okay? It just show this information. So, now we know that okay, once I have print the once I click on the login URL, how I am able to see these two things. Okay, this filter helps in generating this page. Now, when a user click on any of the link, what would happen? When user click on one of the authorization server, this endpoint would get invoked. oauth2/authorization/registration ID. What is the registration ID? We have one registration ID is this. This is known as registration registration ID. I already told GitLab, auth0. Or there if you have more, these are known as registration ID. So, whichever link you click, that registration ID would get append. So, let's say if I am clicking GitLab, so / oauth2/authorization/GitLab. This API would get invoked. Okay? So, when this endpoint get invoked, this filter will catch it. oauth2AuthorizationRequestRedirectFilter.java. This filter will is also present into the security framework because of the dependency which we have added. So, now here if you see, here we have the authorization request. In authorization request, what we have, we have the client ID. I told you, right? The client ID the third-party app in our Spring Boot, the client ID would get there in the request, and then it will redirect to the authorization server. Okay, the request got now redirected to the authorization server. Okay, and of it invokes this API. Like whatever the registration ID you have picked, whether GitLab or Auth0. Depending upon that, it will have this all the URI which it has to invoke, and then it invokes the authorization appropriate authorization server. Okay? Then authorization server, if it is GitLab, it will ask you to provide your username password. If it's Auth0, again, email ID password. So, you have to authenticate the yourself, and also you have to authorize the Spring Boot app that they can access my request. So, once it is done, once it is done, the authorization servers calls the redirect URI, which we have set during registration, we have seen that we have set the redirect URI. So, it will invoke the redirect URI. Okay? And in the response, here if you see response, they have set the code, authorization code. Okay? So, which endpoint? This endpoint, this filter now catch this. OAuth2 login authentication filter.java is the one which catch this redirect URI. Now, what they will do? They will first make an authentication object out of this response. Okay? And then what they are doing is they are calling the authenticate. They are means passing it to the authentication manager, and authentication manager redirect it to authentication provider. So, since we are using OpenID, and what is the token it created? OAuth2 login authentication token. So, this is the provider which can handle this. OIDC authorization code authentication provider.java. So, this provider this authenticate method ultimately for this provider will get caught because this can support this uh token authentication object and also for open ID scope, this will support it. So, now here if you see, it do two things. Here till now I have authorization code. Authorization code is there in my this token. In token, I have already set the authorization code. Whatever I have got in the response. In the authorization response, I have got the code, right? So, I have set it and pass it to the provider. Now, what it will do is it is calling invoking the token URI of the authorization server to fetch the token access token response. Okay? And it also has the ID token also. From response, so whatever the response the response it goes, right? From this it fetch both access and ID token. Okay? So, it fetches the ID token. So, we are mostly interested in this ID token. During authentication, we are interested in this ID token which we get from this response of this. So, we take out the ID token and return back to authentication filter. Okay? So, ultimately here if you see, we call the authorized endpoint. It return back with the authorization code. And after that, I invoke the token URI internally. All happening internally. We are user is not even knowing about it. Okay? So, it invoke the token URI endpoint and it return back the ID token. Okay. Now ID token what I have done is So see, in the I have got the ID token. This is how ID token. If you see that, there is something called access token. This is not a JWT. JWT you remember that has three part. Okay, so part one, part two, and part three. Your header, your claim, and then your signature part. But here if you see this token has only there is no dot. So this is known as opaque token. Only authorization server understand what it has. We don't know. So but for OIDC ID token is is in JWT format. If you see this is this is JWT format. So here when it tries to do right create token, right? It uh parses So in the parsing you can see the information. It has all my information, profile, username, right? It has my picture. Like all all information it has. Okay? All basic information which is required for authentication it has. So this ID token is received at this provider which it return back to filter. Okay, and filter what it does is it just stores the token and creates an HTTP session. And once the session is created, it return that login successful. And if you see in the cookie, session is created. And that's why when you hit {slash} users, now cookie has a session. So it automatically give me an access. So if you understand this flow, this uh diagram could also help you a little bit more clarify it. So now user is clicking the login endpoint. Okay? It will goes to the filter chain. From there, it will goes to one of the filter. First is login. So, which filter? Default login page generating filter will get invoked. It will return me a list of authorization server which it get from the application.properties. It's just simply return it and shown to the user. Now, user would be shown two things like auth uh auth O and uh GitLab. Which one you want to authenticate? Now, once a user click on one of the server, this is the endpoint get invoked. Auth two authorization registration ID. In this case, it would be GitLab. Uh the filter chain will get invoked. It will pass the request to one of the security filter chain. Which filter? Auth two authorization request redirect filter will get invoked. It will redirect the request to the authorization server. Okay? And return to the client. But authorization server uh now it redirected the user to this. So, there a user has to provide username password. Okay? But its flow is finished. Its flow it's returned. So, it has returned it. It has completed its flow, but now you user has been redirected this where it has to provide the username password. Let's say GitLab, so it would be like a GitLab page. Once user has provided the username page, it will redirect call a redirect URI with the authorization code. Now, which filter in catches it? Auth two login authentication filter. It creates an authentication token object which is a nothing but an authentication object. It put authorization code here. It passes to the authorization manager. Authorization manager passes it to the authentication provider, which authentication provider understand this token and this is scope open ID is OIDC authorization code authentication provider. So, this understands it. So, what it does is it calls the token URI of the authorization server, passes the client ID, client secret, and authorization code. Okay? So, authorization server return access token, refresh token, and ID token in response. So, it will return the same to the filter. Now, it will what filter will do? See this. First filter is stored this token information into in memory or two authorization client service. So, we can also instead of storing in memory, we can also store it into the DB. We can do that. Right? We can implement this or two client service and we can override and restore it into the DB how we have seen where storing token into the DB. Similarly, this ID token, access token which we are getting from the authorization server, we can store it DB, but currently it is storing in in memory. And then ultimately it's create an HTTP session and restore this session into like whatever the authentication object, right? Which is coming. That is stored into the security context holder. And ultimately it passes call the {slash} localhost:8080/endpoint. So, it has created an HTTP session. So, this is the all the flow happen internally. And now, when you click {slash} users you are trying to access any API since the session is created, security context holder filter will get involved. It will pass to the HTTP session security context repository. It will fetch the session. And if the session is active, it will grant an access. It will grant an access. So, here if you see that here if you see that when the session is set it might not validate the token with each request. So, session is valid the request has passed through. So, it is possible that ID token becomes invalidated, but session is still active. Possible, right? Because now with every request my session is this filter get involved. This see that his session is present. If session is present, it will access the request. It is not taking out my tokens out of this in memory and validating that token hit that token is valid or not. It is not doing that. So, this makes our OAuth stateful. And that's the one of the reason that when Postman when I hit, it is not able to access it. So, how to fix it?
