=== Adding dependency and configurations and run basic flow (883s - 1500s) ===

I have to store it. Okay? So, in the application.properties, I am saving these details. Now, okay, we'll come to the pom, but here if you see, these are the configuration. These are the for the GitLab. And this is for the Auth0. Okay? So, two authorization servers I am adding. So, this is my client ID. This is my client secret. What is the scope? Open ID. Okay? What is the grant type I am using? Authorization code. Whatever the different grant type we have, right? In OAuth2, you can use anything, but currently I'm implementing authorization code. Redirect URI I have set like, okay, this is the API which uh authorization server has to call when they have to return me the authorization code. So, redirect URI authorization URI is something which like uh I have to invoke. So, here in this case, right? See this part. So, once this part uh this part. This is the URL. This is the authorize This is the authorize URL. Okay? And then I when I have to ask for token, this is the token URI. Okay? So, this is all the URIs I'm setting. So, what is the redirect URI, authorization URI, what is the token URI? What is the issuer URI? Issuer Issuer URI is nothing but like what Who is your authorization server? Okay? And JWK set URI is something like, where is the public key is stored? Like whatever the token you will receive, we have to sign We have to verify that token, right? So, in asymmetric encryption, the authorization server use the private key to sign it, and we have to verify it using public key. So, public key has to be read from where? That URL. Okay? So, these are mostly very very standard URLs. Right? And mostly here, if you see, and in the configuration your key, this part only change. GitLab. Now, here we have Auth0. So, if you have any other Gmail, so only all the links would be same. Only here Gmail would come. Or whatever their authorization server name would be, that would come. Okay? So, these are generally known as registration ID. So, registration ID I have two. One is GitLab, and one is Auth0. Okay? And these are the URIs which are present. Okay? These are also very, very standard URIs. So, like whatever the authorization server which you have, and then these endpoints remains the same. Okay? So, you will see mostly the endpoints remains the same. No not much difference. Only your authorization server becomes different. After that, the endpoints become mostly the same. Okay? So, we have added this two information. We have added this two authorization server, and we have to add this pom.xml a Spring Boot Starter OAuth2 client. With this dependency, all the libraries like which understand this configuration, there are certain specific OAuth2 filters code that would come to in our project. Okay? So, we require this pom. We added this application.properties. Uh okay? And in the securityconfig.java, okay? So, here in this case, if you see that, we want OAuth2 login. We don't want form. We don't want basic. We want OAuth2 login customize with default. Okay? So, we have added three things. pom, application.properties, and securityconfig where we have tell the Spring Boot that we want to go ahead with the OAuth2 login. And we have just added very, very basic controller, not required. Just like one default page. Because here we have set that, right? Customizer with default. So, once the authentication is success, it will try to hit the default page, localhost 8080 and the default default page. So, that's where I just written hello, you are logged in. And one specific APIs, if that one would be hit, it will say that fetch the details fetch the details successfully. So, very basic controller I have written. So, till now, what we have done is we have just registered over app. And based on that registration, we have set up the application.properties. Palm, we have added the OAuth2 dependencies. Security config we have tell to the Spring Boot that we want to go ahead with the OAuth2. And the basic controllers we have written. Now, let's see. Let's try. Only notice one thing that I have not created any user in the Spring Boot app. User is not there. My detail is present into GitLab or Auth0. Right? But not in the Spring Boot app. So, I am starting the application server. My application server is a started. Now, I am hitting localhost 8080 URL. Since it is like any request we have to authenticate, it will take me to the default login endpoint. Since we are using OAuth2 login and customize with default. So, with default login page is {slash} login only. Okay? So, it will take me to the login endpoint. So, two See, you will see this page. Two login with OAuth2 two authorization server. First and second. First is Auth0, second is GitLab. So, where this information is coming from? This information which we have set into the application.properties. One is GitLab, another is Auth0. And the authorization server is this issuer URI, gitlab.com. And this Auth0 generally give us a custom authorization server URI. So, this URI. Okay. Now, you can choose anything which you wanted to log in. Right? So, now let's say that if I choose Auth0. When I click the Auth0, it redirect me to the Auth0 login page. Right? Now, you see that I haven't written any code for all this redirection and all. It's working now. So, it automatically when I click here, it redirect me to the Auth0 login page. Log in to this to continue my Spring Boot app. And here I have to provide my email address and password. Once I did this, what what is the next step? So, first is registration, then it will give me client ID and secret. Done. Then what is the next step? Like uh I have to call the authorize endpoint. So, this is the authorize endpoint. Once you click here, it call the authorize endpoint. It goes to the authorization server. Authorization server will show me username password page, and it redirect me to the it redirect me with the authorization code. And using that authorization code, I will pass the token you endpoint, and ultimately I will get the token. And from there, it will use the token, fetch the details, and whatever the detail it will get, it will authenticate myself. So, all this thing happening in behind. Okay, once I provided the username password, it will redirect URI will get invoked. And after this, all this thing happening at the behind, and ultimately I am get logged in. We will see that everything what is happening in behind. Right? If you see, I'm able to log in successfully. If I hit /user endpoint, I'm able to call it. So, this is the second endpoint, right? That is also working properly, even though I have mentioned all the requests should be authenticated. So, how it is working, right? I have just given pom, application.properties, security config. All I tell to the Spring Boot that use OAuth 2 login with default. And rest everything works out of the box. Right? With these three things, everything works fine. So, a Spring Boot Security framework provide the complete functionality of OAuth 2 protocol. We don't have to code anything. But, here is one twist. When I tried to access this /user from the browser, it is working, right? But, the same API when I'm hitting through Postman, it is asking me to like again log in. It is not yet logged in. Why? Why so? Because a Spring Boot assume that OAuth 2 login would be done on a browser. So, by default it creates session. In browser, we it creates a session. That's why it is working. And here I am not passing any in the cookie what is the session ID. So, that's why it is asking me to log in again. Then you you one question comes to your mind, hey, then what 2 is stateful? Right? By default, the Spring created it as a stateful. But, we can make it a stateless also. We will see that. But, first we need to see the stateful.
