=== How to make OAUTH2 stateless (2370s - 3051s) ===

We can make it a stateless. Right? And we can return the ID token in the response. So that the client will pass the token and we will validate the token every time with every request. Can we do that with this framework? Yes, we can do that. Very easily. So, what I will do is that the same flow like the same flow once the user two endpoint, right? Uh two authorization server. Let's say one is GitLab, one is Auth0. User has clicked this. Okay? The same thing. My redirect filter would get involved. It will pass this to authorization server. Authorization server will pass it to authorization code. Everything same. This will pass this authorization code, creates an authentication token. Authentication object will pass to the authentication manager with to authentication provider. It will reach to the OIDC provider, which will call the token URI, and ultimately which will return me the token, ID token. And when the control ultimate goes to the filter, what the first thing it will do? It will store it into in-memory first. Second, it will create an HTTP session and store it into the security context holder. So, in previous part, it was doing till here. But now, since I want to make it a stateless, I have to return that ID token in response. So, this filter is already doing all these things. Authentication filter already doing all these things. Now, I'm adding one additional functionality here. This is important. I am returning the ID token in the response body. How I am doing that? So, here if you open the OAuth 2 login authentication filter, see that. OAuth 2 login authentication filter. So, if we see that uh after authentication, its parent attempt authentication. Something was right. Attempt authentication. Yeah. So, after this uh OAuth 2 login authentication filter, control will come here. What it does is it will create a session, which we have seen here. So, let me zoom it a bit. Okay. So, it will first session strategy. So, it will create a session. We can't change it. This framework is already doing that. We can't delete that don't create a session. After that, it do successful authentication. On successful authentication, it will create a security context holder strategy. Security context holder. But after that, if you see there is one success handler on authentication success. So, this is this interface. So, it has What it is doing inside this? Currently, if you see that it hasn't provided the implementation. So, it is doing some default clean-up task. So, I have implemented my custom or success handler. And provided on authentication success implementation. And in that what I'm doing is I am in the response, I am returning the token. Okay. So, that's what I have just extended one functionality. From the same filter there is a method on authentication success. So, currently it's calling by default one which is doing some clean-up. So, I have just provided an implementation of it. And returning the token in the response body. So, see that first. So, that's what I have done. I have created one custom or two success handler and implemented it authentication success handler. And then provided an override. I have implemented this one. So, I have already have the authentication object, right? This authentication object has all the info. Okay. So, from this or token, I am fetching the ID token information. Okay. So, I'm fetching the ID token information and putting into the response. to make it a stateless. Okay? So, I have enhanced this filter, override one method. So, currently on success after authentication it is also doing nothing. I have just enhanced it, provide a custom implementation, and in the response added the token. ID token. Now, I started the application. And also, yeah, one more thing. In the security config, we have to tell that, right? You have to use this implementation. So, in OAuth 2 login, earlier we were doing customize with default. Now, I'm tell that, hey, the success handler should be this one, the mine one. So, custom OAuth 2 success handler. So, this is already at the rate component, so bean object would be created. So, I have just said that. When you initialize it, initialize it with this, not with the default one. Okay? And also, I make it a stateless. By default was if required, we have already seen that in the previous um form-based login. By default is this required. So, we have a specifically make it that is make it this is a stateless. This OAuth 2 login is a stateless, and this is the success handler which I want to use. Okay? So, now when I started the application, after authorization from the authen- authorization server, see, in response I got this token. Okay? And now you can Now, only one thing left. We have to utilize this token. And we have to validate it before providing us like access to any of the API. Right? So, now what we all to do is that now only one task left is client will pass this token with every request and we have to verify it. Now, let's say the client have to use the {slash} users. So, in the authorization they have to pass bearer token and this will pass this token. So, once this token will pass, we have to validate this ID token, right? We have to validate this. So, how to validate that? So, for that I have created a new filter. So, I have created an OAuth validation filter extend once per request filter. I've created a filter. Now, here if you see first I am doing is extracting the JWT from the request. So, from authorization bearer header, I am fetching the token. This is ID token which I got. Now, I am created one utility. So, this is one utility method that I have created at the rate component. So, I have created one method is token valid. Give me the token, I will validate it. So, now what I am doing? How I'm validating it? Now, see this token is generated by GitLab. And let's say that it has used this algorithm to sign it. So, this is an asymmetric encryption. So, they might have signed it through private key. We need its public key. Okay? And public key URI we have already sent into the application.properties. If we just go and recheck our application.properties once. Here, if you see that JWK set URI, this URL, these are unique for each of the authorization server. Okay? So, this is from where we get the public key through which we have to sign it. So, the first thing I am doing is I am finding from this token itself who is the issuer. Who is the issuer? So, I'm just finding uh I'm just parsing the token and taken out like who is the issuer, whether Git or Auth0 or something else. Once I get who is the token, I am using the framework itself, JWT decoder. We just put from issuer location. We just provide the location. Here it is a gitlab.com. Here it is Auth0 something, whatever the authorization server. Now this framework has the understanding that uh it will from the application.properties jwks it will load the proper authorization uh server URI. It will fetch the key. And from that key, it will decode it, our JWT. Verify it. If it is not verified, it will fail it. Okay? So, we are I'm just utilizing the framework. You can even write your own. You can have the URI. You can read the URI from application.properties. You can call it and verify it. But this is the JWT decoder already does that. All we have to tell is who is the issuer. From that issuer, it will load the URI from the application.properties and then decode it for us. Okay? So, verify and decode for us. So, what I'm doing is here after extracting the token, I am validating the token. Okay? And it will internally, it will you know that it will use jwks URI endpoint to fetch the public key. And it will validate it. And once it is validated, I all I am doing is storing the authentication object into the security context holder because without this login is not successful. Okay? So, I just created for the testing purpose, I just created username password authentication token. I just put like this is a unique username. And just put into the security context holder. Yeah, authentication is success. Okay? So, this is the filter I have created. Now, from the previous video, we know that we have to add this filter. So, that's what I'm doing. So, till now we have seen that we have make it a stateless, we have added our uh handler, which is used to return the token in the response. And now I have added this filter. Just before this. So, we we have to specify the place. So, now once you start the server now and hit this endpoint /users and the bearer token, provide the token, you will see that fetch the details successfully.
