=== Introduction and Recap (0s - 296s) ===

Shraddha's side, welcome to concept and coding, and today in this video we will see an OAuth 2 implementation. So, if you have not seen the previous video where I have explained about what is OAuth and what are the different grant types, so I would highly recommend that kindly have a look at it once before jumping into the implementation. Okay? So, I will give you a very very quick recap. What is OAuth? OAuth stands for open authorization framework. It enables a third-party access. Right? Secure third-party access to user protected data. We have a different grant types like authorization code grant, implicit grant, client credentials, and there are two more, right? Which we have already discussed in the previous video. So, today I will do an implementation in a Spring Boot for this authorization code grant flow. So, before jumping into the implementation, let's have a quick recap of what is authorization code grant flow looks like. So, consider the resource owner, which is us, you, me. So, we have our data. Right? Where in let's say in one of the resource server, let's say Gmail. We have our data like mail, like some profile picture, Gmail, email ID, username, like we have and mobile number. We have our data present into the Gmail. And Gmail has one of its authorization server also. Okay? And this is client or Insta or you can say that any third-party app. Third-party app which we have to grant access to our data, but securely. How we can do that? We have seen that already. So, quickly first this third-party app has to register themselves. Register itself into the authorization server. Let's say in this case with the Gmail authorization server, they have to register this third-party app. So, Gmail will send them the client ID and secret, which this third-party app will store it. Now, what would happen is let's say that I am going and saying that hey, this third-party app, let's say Insta, I want to sign in, but I want to sign in using Gmail. I don't have an account on here. The first time I'm coming and I'm choosing sign in using Gmail. So, what it will do is it will redirect me to this authorization server. Right? This third-party app redirect me to the authorization server and it will send the client ID also in the request. So, what authorization server will do, it will give me a username password field where the resource owner, I have to provide my username my password of the Gmail. Right? Means I am providing the consent that yes, hey Gmail, allow this third-party app to access my this data. Okay? Once I provide this, this authorization server return the authorization code back in the response. Using this authorization code, this third-party app makes another API call to fetch the token. Right? And inside the request, it will pass code, uh client ID, and the secret which it initially got. Right? And it requests for the token. Once it got this all the details authorization server, it will return back the token. It could be the JWT token. Possible. Right? There are different type of token like opaque token, JWT token. So, it might return the token, access token. And now using this token, it will hit the API of this authorization server. Let's say Gmail API. Right? Gmail API, hey, fetch me the details of let's say mobile number or username and email ID. Depend upon what the third party want access to. Right? With this JWT access token with the OAuth 2 model we can access the API and through which we can fetch the user details. Okay? Now it got the token. So it has in the request it has to pass the token. Okay? Now once this resource server got the token, it will pass it to the authorization server, validate it. If it's valid like if the token is valid, it will return the details and based on that it will sure that sign-in is successful. Okay? If it is not valid, it will throw an error, like failure ultimately. So this is a very high-level flow which we have seen. Now we will implement it. But again before we jump into the implementation,
