=== Count (647s - 988s) ===

Count counts counts the number of record for each key. That's you can say that when we do group by key or group by when we use that many times we confuse that they are the one actually doing the grouping but I never told this one in my understanding group by and group by key only does two thing. I told you it guide the downstream which key to use for grouping. So downstream does the grouping part. Don't get confused by this name group by that they are doing a grouping like in SQL they are not doing the grouping. They are just guiding you can say that it's a meta data it has the metadata which downstream processing node will use that which key to do use for grouping. So count is the one which actually does doing the grouping. So it counts the number of record for each key. So that's where it K table comes into the picture. So in the K table you know that it maintains a Rox DB. Now the counts this will get invoked on top of this your K group. Let's say group doers dot count. So now it knows which key to use. Okay. So based on that key it it maintain the K table. So it key and let's say value 1 2 3. So long. So count we do count. Okay. So orders dot group by key. What does it mean? Orders. So group by key I am using means I don't want to change the key. Whatever the key is present into this order K stream use that itself. Okay. Dot count and you know that dot count make use of Rox DB. Okay. So that's where this is another method. So either you simply use dot count or if you want to give a specific names to your Rox DB you can do that. I have already shared that also. So I'm just telling that materialized this is optional. By default key value store is used only for the Rox DB what should be the name of your ROG DB. Order counter store I have given. And you know that when we write into the rog DB the data is stored as bytes. So what should be the key and the value? Okay. Uh you can say that serializer in that we have already covered the serializer derializer also. So I think this should be properly clear. So here if you see that we have already covered serializers d serializers already. So dot count and this is what your rod db properties you can say that it's rog db name and the key and the value serializer clear now what would happen so I'm just taking a use case when we do a count now our topology is let's say this source topic from this we got a orders this is our k stream Okay. Then on top of it itself we do group by key. When we do a group by key on this seam mean no repartition happen. The same key I am using but I get this object K group. Now on top of it I called count. So count will do it will rock read the ros DB update the count and write it value also. So because it handles the ROD DB let's say user one it will read it whatever the value it is it will update and write it also it keep on updating this okay similarly if there is a repartition let's say source topic you have done a select key okay and when you do a group by key it will initiate a repartition and uh then you do a count same flow nothing different I just tell you that uh the same the count which we are doing can either be a this scenario or this scenario repartition scenario no repartition scenario but only thing is you don't have to worry about that repartition is handled internally which we have discussed in architecture video okay so this is just an example I have shown you let's say orders dot group by now I have changed the key order dot get user id dot count so earlier input record was this let's say this is the input record now in this ros db which count will maintain so it would be user id based the key would be your user ID so count will use the information which group by metadata provides Which key to use this key? User ID. Okay. So, user one, user one, user one. So, three and user two has only one record long output is this. Generally, this is your key. This is your value. Clear? Very very simple. Similarly, we
