=== join (1388s - 1880s) ===

right and another is very important is join so k stream. So if you remember that we have different type of source you can say K stream K table okay now K stream U means infinite stream what's the start when the stream start when the stream finish you don't know data keep on coming data keep on flowing but K table K table maintains key value Okay, let's say user one its latest record, user two its latest record. It has maintained certain information. We have already seen that into the source also. Now let's say how you want to join it. A k stream cable join and reach each stream event with the latest value from a table. Okay. So I am saying from stream to join from stream to K table we are doing a joining. So K table let's say has user address information and now the order is coming let's say order ID 1 user ID U00 user ID is 100 so you need the address detail of it so you are joining the K table finding from this user ID that hey what is the address detail now this address detail now you are enriching it here in this order itself So you have a new order object you can say that very simple just understand when we do a join method just under understand this parameter it would be very easy the first the K table which you want to join with. Okay the first parameter is simple. Now the second is value joiner. Go inside this and see what happen. So if you go inside this value joiner you will see this method which we have to provide an implementation. The first is your value one v_sub_1 which is nothing but a k stream value. So you are joining k stream versus k table right. So it is just like let's say user 100 the key you can say the k stream value and the second latest value for the key from the k table. Okay so for the exact key see join happens on the key basis. Understand that when we are doing join internally it make use of key here and key here to do the joining. Now after that it has done the joining it get the data correct. So this v_sub_1 value one is the value of this k stream this value let's say u00 whatever the value we got this represent this v2 represent the data value for this u00 key okay whatever the value it represent the value from the k table join happens between the key of both. Okay. Once you have a join. So now let's say K stream user ID U00 order id something K table U certain data. Now this order comes. So you do join. So it will use the key. So you make sure that whatever the K stream you have its key and this K table key should be same then only your join will work. Okay. So now let's say that its key key is user ID. It key should be user. If it is order ID change it change it to user ID then only it should work. Okay. So now let's say key is user ID. K table key is also this user ID which is U. So based on this U join will happen. So it has this complete information of this record. It has this complete information of this record. So this V_sub_1 represent a value for the K record of this K stream. This V_sub_2 represent a value from this K table for this key. Okay. Now whatever you want it how you want to append or how you want to enrich you want to create a new object do whatever and return the new object and this new object is ultimately become your so here if you see the key this new object ultimately this VR becomes your new value so you are enriching the Kstream data see this example it will get Here I have a case stream orders dot select key. So earlier order was on order id that's why I change it first to select key and I am using user id because my k table is based on user ID. So I have a k table I have a k stream now I'm doing a join order by users orders by user dot join on which k table users. So internally they will use the key of the both. Okay. Now this is the value from the K stream. This is the value from the K table. How you want to enrich you can create a total new object. How you wanted it totally your logic. But whatever you want to return new object or the same object order but with additional which has additional field you have earlier was null now you have filled it. Do whatever and return that one. So now your next K stream is ready with this key and this enrich order. Now you can build on top of this. Got it? So key for both K stream and K table should be same. Similarly you can do K table to K table very similar. So I have two K table. Okay. Now you can do profiles dot preferences. Profile dot join preferences. Now this is the value from the profile. This is the value from the preference your logic how you want to create a new object. Okay. And that ultimately would be your new K table because K table K table output is K table. And here we are doing a joining with K stream to K table. So means we are enriching K stream. Okay. We are just using K table as a source like whatever the object is coming using it key find out the data enriching it and now we have a more enriched object. Okay. But K table to K stream is not possible. Why? Because Kstream is an unbounded sequence of event. There is no start end. We can't just randomly look up. So this is not possible. I think it's clear right? K table you have a certain table right you are maintaining it but the stream is like no start no end how the join will work cool so clear stateful operations these are mostly used and there could be many but yeah the main main one I have covered it the last which left is window last 5 minutes last 10 minutes last one are counted count the order okay so that's is left after that our K stream is totally finished okay okay guys any doubt let me know we can disc sorry we can discuss further Bye.
