=== groupByKey and groupBy (140s - 647s) ===

clear the first thing the group by key and the group by it has two major responsibilities the first is convert your K stream into K grouped stream what does that mean? So now understand that when you have a K stream you have a key you have a value. Okay. Now I am saying that the first task or first responsibility of when we use group by key and group by is to convert this to K grouped stream. What does it mean? So the first thing it does is that when we have to do a group, when we do a group of records, what should be the key used? What should be the key key used? If the [snorts] same key whatever it is coming that can be used or a different key need to be used. Okay. So if the same key has to be used use group by key. If you have to use different key group by okay we'll see an example. The second thing it does is repartition if required. So I told you the first is it find out or you can say that it tells the downstream downstream nodes processing nodes in after below this group by whatever we will do below this processing nodes it tells that which key you should use for grouping for grouping the records. The second I told you that it loop repartition repartition in the sense that if the key is change earlier it was let's say order id and let's say using select key in the previous video I have told you about stateful processing right uh stateless processing in that we have discussed map value select key so using map and select key we can change the key so if you have changed the key means you are eligible for repartition. Now when you are doing group by or group by key or group by you are specifically saying that hey we have to do a repartition because earlier it was you if you have watched the architecture video you might already get cleared why a repartition is required because let's say earlier order ID and let's say this record has user ID 1 and certain order just in let's say topic one similarly in topic two you have an order id but again it's a user ID one only but certain different order so earlier our key was order ID okay so this is order ID let's say one this is order ID let's say something 100 so because of this order id topics they were grouped into a particular topic Let's say all same order id let's say key goes into the same partition we know that same partition you can say that partition partition partition one partition two but now we are changing that hey change the key from order ID change it to user ID so that's why repartition is required because now when you want this user ID you want all the user ID with particular ID which are currently scattered into different partition Now you have to regroup it so that they can be part of one partition and reason I have explained into this architecture also. Check this out. Okay. So first is group by key. Group by key tells the downstream stateful operation to use existing key for aggregation itself. So whatever let's say this is orders K stream. Now if you are using group by key here you are just telling downstream whatever the let's say count aggregate whatever the other stateful processing nodes you are just saying that whatever the case stream I have use this only don't change it so use it when the current key is already the key you want to aggregate for example we have already seen that during stateless processing nodes order dot select key if I have to change it. Let's say I have changed it. Okay, group by key doesn't know about it. I have changed it. Now on top of this I am doing group by key. Now what happened? I haven't provided which key to use. So this group by key does two things. First tells the downstream that what key to be used. Now it is saying that I am using order by use user this case stream reference right so whatever the key is use that so whatever the key is coming use that second is does repartition required so here in this case earlier your orders orders were based on order id so we have using select key we have changed it and if you remember from the stateless processing video I told that whenever key is changed it is eligible for repartition but not happened. So but when group by key is called it check does key change. Yes earlier it was order ID now it's user ID. So key is change. So it initiate the repartition. Okay. So it initiate the repartition first and then the future whatever the downstream processing nodes like count aggregate they know that which key to be used the same key whatever it is present okay the second is group by so group by say that hey I don't want to use the current key I will tell you new key which could be different type two So now let's say I haven't used select key before. Okay, I you have only have orders. Now you can do orders.g group by this is now your key. This is now value. Now you can say which key you want to use. Okay. So you got a k grouped stream output this type your new key and the value. So it's like you understood right when we are using group by key we don't have an way to change the key you can say that when we are using group by we can change the key. So if you have to use a group by key and you have to change the key then you have before that you have to make make use of select key or map. Okay. But if you don't want to use that, you can directly use group by and change the key. And let's say you don't have to change the key itself. Whatever it is present in orders orders, you have to use that itself. You don't have to change the key itself. Then go back group by key itself. Direct orders do.group by key. Okay. So in that case key is not changed. So no repartition will happen. And we have already tell the downstream stateful processing node that use the existing key. So it will use whatever the orders have the key. Okay. But with the group by we are specifically telling what key need to be used. So this become our new key. Okay. So for both group by key and group by if there is any change in key Kafka stream need to redistribute records which is a repartition according to the new key. Got it?
