=== Aggregate (988s - 1388s) ===

have aggregate. So, sometimes you have to decide how the aggregation should work. So, that's where you can use it too. That means you want to write your own logic. So just see this understand this aggregate method then you can use it very easily. So if you see this aggregate the first parameter it has is initializer. This is the first parameter. Initializer means when you see the key for the first time how do you want to initialize it? Whether you want to initialize with zero or if let's say if you're using a string then with empty or null whatever when you identify a key for the first time how you want to initialize and the second is aggregator if you go inside an aggregator function interface what it has k v and this three parameter it has what does this three parameter is key this is key this is value what is this third one. So third one here if you see so this is your key this is your value and this third one is your ultimately your return type what actually you going to return okay the same thing it going to come and now here if you see the output k table ka vr so this is your key this is actually your new value. This is VR is actually your new value. So now read this fully again. Initialize what is the type generate type V R. Okay. So means now just connect the dots here. I know at one time it would be look difficult like we are using function interface plus generics. So it's difficult but connect the dots here in the initialized plus this it will get clear. Let me yeah read it again. The first is initializer. Now here if you see initializer the generic type we are passing is VR. Now here if you see the VR is nothing but a return type. So this is your Rox DB. what is present inside a ros db that will go okay now this vr is getting passed here so this is your ros db value so now in the aggregator we have three key value and your rocks db value now whatever you have to do the operation do it and ultimately what you are returning is the third one itself the your rocks DB value you are returning and the same this VR the same is getting updated into your K table your ROS DB value see this example it will get clear let's say this is the value this is the records output we want is allies 300 Bob 500 so allies has let's say order 100 150 50 so combine 300 and for Bob 200 and 300 total 500 this should come. So first is this orders dotg group by key. Yes this is my let's say earlier Kstream orders key value. So key is this value is this I want this is a metadata all the downstream use the same key. So use this name as a your key itself. Okay. So I got this object k grouped stream key value. Now on this I am calling dotaggregate. Now parameters the first is initializer. We have to provide an implementation for this method. It takes zero parameter. So zero parameter and what should be the output. So initializer in the sense is when you see the key for the first time how you want to initialize it. Let's say the allies has come for the first time. How you want to initialize it in the Rox DB zero I and assign the value zero. So initially allies is zero in let's say in Rox DB. Okay. Now aggregator key value and what's the Rox DB value comes in let's say so key value and this value generally give it a name total from Rox DB till now do whatever your computation would be into for this one I am just doing whatever the value present in Rox DB plus the total order amount now okay and the same get return here okay inside this Now example is let's say first time allies came currently Rox DB has no data ros DB lookup not found so initializer would be zero and then your aggregator will run aggregator will do 0 plus the record this is coming right 0 + 100. So this aggregator will do this is your key this is your value and this is the currently Rox DB value. So it will do 0 + 100. So ultimately it will return 100 which will ultimately get stored into the Rox DB and also return here. Okay. Now second time record come it will do a DB lookup. Yes. Allies has a value. Yes it found 100. So will it run the initializer? No value is present. So directly it will go to the aggregator key value and the Rox DB value currently 100. So it will do 100 plus order dot get amount 150. So it will return 250 and 250 also you have here. So third record the same ultimately return 300. So allies has 300 into the rox DB also. Got it? So if you want a control over your aggregation logic you can do it yourself because if you use count it would be just like allies three but you want to count this amount so you can use aggregate your logic
