=== Cron Expression Syntax (998s - 1426s) ===

expression better and with if that got clear then I think chron job is nothing because in the part one we have already know the internal how it worked. So the same thing like we know what thread might be doing, how thread get to sleep for a specific time, how they got invoked up, how the delayed Q is maintained. So we already know that. So it's a piece of cake for us. Only thing is we need to understand the syntax. So here in the chron expression syntax, it has six part separated by a space. Second, minute are day of the month. Okay, month day of the week. So second is 0 to 59. Minute is 0 to 59. R is 0 to 23. This is like a normal wall clock. Okay. Starting from zero like 11 59. It started from 11 0 to 1159 like the normal thing. the same thing. Now the day of the month 1 to 31st. Okay, day of the month is either 1 to 31st. We can define month either you can give 1 2 3 or 12 or you can also give Jan, J and D C three words capital day of the week. Day of the week is like 0 to 7. You can give or sun to set like three words capitals m o n t u e wed d likewise. Now here you might see that hey 0 to 7 is 8 but we have only 7 days in a week. So here 0 is also Sunday 7 is also Sunday 1 2 3 4 5 6 it's like Monday Tuesday Thursday Friday but 0 and 7 is Sunday. Okay. So this is a very basic like uh syntax. Now it also has certain special characters. We need to see that. But then we will see some practical examples. The first is asteris. Astress means every. Okay. So let's say we have the six parts. Now in whichever part you put estress. So this is like second then you have minute. If you put estress in a minute, what does how do we read it? like every minute. So estrus means every every minute. If you put estrogen second, every second. Okay. If you put estrog in r, it's like every r. This is how we read it. Okay. So estster means every. Then we have comma. You can say it's a considered as list used to specify multiple values. Okay. Like 0, 20 in the second field. So in the second field I put 0, 20. So a star. So let's say something else. So what I will say that for every minute in the second is 0 and 20th second only. 0 and 20th second task runs. Okay? Not every second only 0 and 20. If I put 9, 15 in the hour. So this is second, this is minute, this is hour. If I put 9, 15, what does it mean? uh here in the means that the job need to run 9 a.m. or 15 means 3 p.m. So it's a list then we have hyphen which is known as range. So in the r 2 minute r if I put 9 - 15 means every hour between 900 a.m. to 300 p.m. every hour. So between this including job need to be run. So every hour from 9:00 a.m. to 3 p.m. that is range. Then we have a slash. It is used to specify intervals. So like here you can say that we have a start and step. For example 4/10 let's say in the second field. What does it mean? Job need to be executed at 4th second then keep adding 10 second. So it's just like an step over like add on to this. So after 4 second you need to keep add 10 10 10 seconds. So 4 14 24 34 44 54. Okay. So 0 to 59 is the seconds right? So 4 by 10 in the second field means start at four after that 10 10 10 uh interval we need to maintain /ash by 10 in the second field means start from zero zero then plus 10 10 20 30 40 50 likewise then we have L. L means last and it is only allowed in day of the month and day of the week. Okay. So day of the month, L in the day of the month means last day of the month. Last day if it's a February month, the last day could be the 28 29. It it takes out into the calculation. If it's April, it's 30. If it's December, it is 31. So last day of the month and L in the day of the week is like last day of the week. Uh last occurrence of the given weekday in the month. Okay. So now let's say you have given Friday last. So it's syntax is day and l. Okay. So day is like like if you have put Friday L. So last Friday of the month. If you have put Monday Last Monday of the month. Okay. Then there is something called question mark. It is used to tell that ignore this field. Okay. also allowed only in these two field day of the month and day of the week. So generally its main purpose is to remove the ambiguity. So see understand this how ambiguity can come. Let's say if I have used this expression how you will read. So is it every day? See second [snorts] this is second this is minute this is hour. Okay. Day of the month. A star. Every day. Okay. This what a star means. Every day. Day of the month. Every day. But here I am saying day of the week Monday. So now it's confusing. Are you trying to say every day you should run or every month Monday? Every Monday I you want to run. So it's become ambiguity. So what to do in that case? We can make use of question mark. Hey, when I want every Monday, ignore this field. Day of the month. I don't want to put a star or I don't want to put a day itself. I just want to put every Monday. So day, you can ignore it. Question mark. Okay. So these are some practical examples you
