=== Pratical Cron expression samples (1426s - 1612s) ===

can practice it with it. So first is every 5 seconds. So every 5 seconds is like if you see this syntax on the second part I put estster five and everything else like uh every so like it would run on zero then five then 10 then 15 likewise if you have like every 4 minute job need to be run so in the minute part I have put estress 4. So currently what happen is my job would start at 0 then 4 then 8 then 12 likewise then like every day at 11:15 a.m. Okay. So here I have put this is r I have put 11 this is minute and seconds I have specifically put zero okay and the day of the month I have put everywhere start. So it's like every day it will run this job will get executed every day at 11:15 a.m. Every weekday at 9:00 a.m. Every weekday let's say weekday is Monday to Friday. So in the day of the week I have put specifically Monday to Friday only. Okay every months this week. So I have put a star day of the month whether it's 1 to I don't care. So that's why I put question mark. Okay please ignore here I'm telling ignore this. I want to run Monday Friday no matter what the day is whether it's the 5th or 6th or 7th whatever the date is I don't care day matter. Okay. And 9:00 a.m. So this is 9:00 a.m. every Sunday at midnight. Sunday at midnight. So day I am talking about this Sunday. I don't care about what's the date. So that's why I put question mark every month. So I put asteris midnight is 0000. Start from here runs at midnight on first day of every month. Every month's first day. Okay. Midnight. So what I have told is the date I'm interested in like date one. Now the day I don't care whether on the first it's Monday or Sunday I don't care that's why I put koshima okay month every month and midnight I want it zero last day of every month at midnight so if this is the requirement so midnight so this is the hour minute second for the midnight okay and then we are saying is day last date okay uh so it's like a last date this is the last date. So if the month last date is 29 or uh 30 or 31 or 28 so pick whatever the last date of a month is for every month pick a last date I don't care about the day whether the last date is Sunday Monday I don't care so this is just practical
