=== FixedRate use in application (138s - 297s) ===

to use the fixed rate in spring boot. So we create a class. Okay. And I have annotated with at the rate component. Now this is the method. So this method consider this as a task which need to be scheduled. Okay. Now currently I am using fixed rate. Okay. I am not explaining how fixed rate works because in the part one itself we have seen it and this fixed rate is equivalent to schedule at fixed rate. What in the part one we have seen how it works. We have already seen the example. Okay. So here it just you can say that wrap in spring it's just a wrapper above it and we can use it like add the rate schedule initial delay is this 3 second and the delay after that which we wanted to maintain is 5 second okay so these are here in milliseconds and internally here I have used see fixed rate so internally it make use of schedule at fixed rate method only so Somewhere you will also see that many engineers don't even write a spring delay. So if you don't write it like this then default is zero means start as soon as the job is submitted. Okay. Otherwise if you here I have put 3 seconds. So means once the job is submitted after 3 second itself after 3 second itself the task will get started. Okay. And if you see the output you can see that the application started at 38 then it the one is 41. So it maintain an initial delay of 3 second after that every 5 seconds. So you remember from the previous video fixed rate what's the formula to find the next execution time? previous start time plus the delay which we wanted. So previous start time let's say 41 plus delay we have set is five. So next it should run 46. Then after 46 once it get executed at 46 the next time it has to find the next execution time. So previous start time. So 46 + 5 likewise 51 56 like this it keeps on going. Okay. So if you have any doubt with this method schedule should fix rate how this is working kindly check out the part one of this it will get super clear. The second is fixed delay. Again we have
