=== 5th Pitfall (Exception handling) (895s - 1511s) ===

Now we have something called another pitfall is exception handling. So this is you can say that u very not tricky but like different solution with by different engineers you can say that or like different person different way of handling the exception in case of scheduleuler. Okay. But I would tell you that what exception handling should have in case of scheduleuler the best exception handling the thing is that see till now what we have done is batch [snorts] one batch 2 batch 85. Okay multiple because all 85,000 records we are not processing in a single time. We are running in batches of,000,000 records and this is all one scheduleuler job. So what is the best exception handling could be? The best exception handling could be that hey if one job failed here if one job failed here it should not fail all thousand. Okay and if one batch failed it should not fail all the other batches. Okay. So that's what you can say that one bad subscription because here in this example I am just giving you a subscription example. So we have let's say working on thousand subscription. So one bad subscription the entire batch fails. If the problem is generally whatever the design we have currently. So in this design consider that if any problem comes here so currently UF has thousand record this list has thousand records. Okay. You are iterating over thousand. Okay, if any issue comes, you will come out of this for loop. Okay, so one bad subscription, entire batch fails. And similarly here if one batch got failed, if one batch got failed, somehow you will come out of this while loop. So entire whole scheduleuler failed. No other batch will run. And also we haven't put any logging itself. If anything fails in scheduleuler how you will find out ultimately. So now let's handle all these three scenario. First one bad subscription entire batch fail scenario. So this is our batch for which we have written right process batch fetching the thousand records and process it. So this is the failure scenario. Let's say the subscription 900 is in processing. So we are in loop for loop uh to out of 1,000 let's say 900 is in processing and while deleting the enrollment it throws some DB constraint error let's say the whole transactions got roll back in this one so because it is under the transactional and issue comes here the whole transaction rolled back because see even though you have for 900 subscriptions you have already successfully updated the status enrollment but Because of one issue, the whole 899 already processed is lost. For 899, you have already successfully updated the status uh subscription status and enrollment repo. Those will be lost to because it is under at the rate transactional. Even one failure will come everything will be rolled back and also out of,000 at 900 you got the error. So the remaining 9001 to,000 that will also never be touched. You are out of this batch itself. So how we can improve it is that for each subscription at record level. So you can say that this is record handling for each record I am handling. So for each out of thousand you got thousand records here. Now you are iterating over all the thousands. Now for each one I am under try catch block. Okay. So I tried to update it properly but if any exception comes while processing this subscription I am having a proper logging also and proper update of the status. Why this is important? Okay, because when the next time you fetch it, this record should not come because uh let's say you are not able to uh make this status expired or you are not able to delete this enrollment. Okay. So I have marked the status failed. Okay. And here in this I updated that in the query status not in expired and failed. You know why? Because see every time in the batch one till batch 85 I am fetching top 1,000 okay which status is expired which status is not in expired this is our query right not in expired till here okay but now let's say if on any particular record you are not able to change its status okay any issue comes then next time if you don't if you don't do this you just log it. Okay. So what would happen is in the next batch also this record will come and that record is you can say that will come with every batch and it will fail with every batch itself and it will just keep on logging itself. So the best way to handle this scenario is that for each record-wise if there is any issue with the record have a proper status update somewhere either you have a different table where you are maintaining the record failure status or in the same table if you have some status which is if it is not able to update properly. So have a proper status that failed so that at later time you able to fetch the failure records and work on it. So this is one best way to handle record level failure and also it automatically handles that if one out of thousand if one record fails. Okay, the one thing is you have a proper information in the DB now that this record failed. It's not able to process properly in DB also you have a proper logger also. Okay. And in the next run also since you have updated the status in the next run it will not come and your remaining 899 job which you have already covered let's say that will not get rolled back plus you will be able to complete rest of the remaining 100 trans subscription also. So what I mean to say that one bad subscription will not block your complete batch processing. Okay. Now another is one batch failure whole scheduleuler fails. So till now we have handled the record level. Now we can also handle the batch level. So at this batch if any issue comes so you are running multiple batch right here. Batch one then batch two then batch three. If any issue comes then again let's say bash three while processing throws exception and while f while while fetching from the DB let's say here at this point of time some exception comes what would happen scheduleuler stops entirely batch one and batch two are committed so they are saved so now let's say batch one runs okay successfully processed now batch two comes successfully processed Batch three comes, exception comes here. Now exception comes here. But your batch one and batch two in their transaction. So those are committed properly. Okay. But no continuation for the remaining batches. So it will come out of this exception while loop because some exception come. So batch three because of batch three till batch 85 it won't be able to execute. So we can handle that. So another way is that either you can have try catch block here. Okay. Or see this is the place where we are starting the batch work right. So have this everything into the try cage block also. And how your business logic say that how to handle the batch failure you can handle it. Currently I'm doing a proper logging that batch DB failure. That's all. Let's say if best three fails okay if something got failed up its cache block will come it will just do if you have to put it into some DB or do a proper logging or alerting you can do that here okay but ultimately I'm returning true here okay and it will proceed the next batch itself okay so batch level handling is also proper and also the entire you can have it like overall scheduleular job. Now whenever the scheduleuler is starting have it in a try catch block even though we have divided into different batches. Okay, each ba batch we have handled it but it's always better that everything should be under try catch but if anything any issue any exceptions let's say comes here in the parent it also should not like silent silent you can say the silent failure it should not be silent failure because if any issue comes and if you don't alert it properly or don't log it properly ly it would be missed. Okay. So this is you can say it's a uh safety net the parent one. So these are the three level you can say that record level safety batch level safety and overall scheduleuler level safety. So generally exception handling in scheduleuler in my opinion should be handled at this three layer itself. Okay. Now another let's move to the another
