=== 7th Pitfall (Multiple instance and PESSIMISTIC LOCK) (1793s - 2279s) ===

Now here if you see that till this point at all the six points we have done with the uh like pitfalls which are related to single instance. Okayuler in a running in a single instance. So here till this point everything is clear because now we are moving it to multiple instances. Any doubt in this one? Six pitfalls please go through again. Batch execution simple right. Exception handling very simple three layer we need to uh keep track of. Uh and uh transaction per batch uh I think it should be clear. First level catch I have already told you that how memory leak happen that why need transaction per batch persistence. This is important right? So if you are dealing with the spring boot APIs right you will see that even though you have multiple transaction they are sharing a persistence context sharing the first level cache because for each request it create a persistence context we can turn it off this is the default we can turn it off through this okay so that it will have for each transaction it will create a first level cache only but in scheduleuler this is the default transaction itself because we don't have any HTTP request itself Awesome. So now we have a basic understanding of all the pitfalls. Now inter ultimately have taken us to okay what happen when we have multiple instances. Then the problem first he want to listen is that duplicate execution will happen. So see you have this scheduleuler job. I have written this scheduleuler job. Okay. Whatever we have done now we have two instances of our job or let's say our scheduleuler is running two pods pod one pod two now at 1:00 a.m. So this is second minute R at 100 a.m. both pods will try to execute this job see both are independent the same code is deployed here the same code is deployed here okay so at 1:00 a.m. both will start executing the code. What would happen? Both is doing the operation in a duplicate manner. They both will select the top thousand like process batch. Now in the process each for each batch what they are doing is they select the top thousand part two will also select the same thousand. Okay. It will update the status. It will also update the status again. While updating the status maybe putting internally lock but it will ultimately be released and then it will also update. It will delete all enrollment. It will also try to delete may get exception also because there is no data to delete. But what I'm trying to say that we are doing duplicate execution and consider this is very a serious problem when you are dealing with financial data. What if you are job is to transfer the money or refund and because of this duplication you end up refund two times or if it is a debit operation you end up performing debit two times. then you have a compliance issue. So this duplication issue is very important and that's where interviewer is more interested in and more of the pitfalls is just like 5 10 minute discussion ultimately this is the major discussion point when you have a scheduleuler running in multiple parts when your application in multiple parts how you will handle the duplication the first solution is the pessimistic lock. So now here if you see how I am handling is the same thing. This is my parent job. This is till now here we have achieved it like this is for exception handling I have overall scheduleuler into track catch block in the while true I am uh keep on running for each batch. Okay so you can say that for each batch I have a transactional and I have a batch level try catch block for each batch is fetching the thousand record. Same thing no change at all till now and for each thousand record for each record now I have a safety net okay and I am handling it now where we are doing the pessimistic lock so now this is the place where we are fetching the thousand records okay I have changed the query to earlier we have only limit 100 right I have also added four update now what would happen with this that lock would be acquired on thousand rows by only one transaction other transaction will wait for the lock to release. So even though you have two pod pod one and pod two both runs at the same time now it will acquire like 1,000 transactions top 1,000 transaction it will acquire the log this will now wait. Okay. So this would be the runtime behavior. Begin the transactions. This is part one. Pod two. Begin the transaction. Select for update. It will also run select for update. But only one would be able to log the thousand rows. Another will get blocked here. Waiting for instance once commit. So now the instance one will process it, commit it, then it will get unblocked. So this is the timeline way. Okay. So log cross it is waiting. It will process it is waiting. When it do ultimately comment then it will get the log and then it will start the process. Okay. But what would happen it's select for update you can say that whatever the logs [snorts] or whatever the rows it has updated those rows will not come to this one because those are already updated. So you should have a proper query they not in expired or not in failed so that when instance 2 is try to fetch this one all thousand first top thousand records it already change it to expired properly. So when you are running this query not in expired not in fil those thousand will not come now. Okay. So it will pick maybe next 1,000 and when it pick next thousand instance will might wait. But this has a very uh important con and this is where interior says that hey is this the best we can do. The major problem is this blocking nature. It's never recommended that your scheduleuler job is waiting. It's never recommended. It's not scalable as other instances are just blocked by one instance. So generally there are not two instances. Uh if you are working in a big organization you know that there are hundreds of pots. If your one instance is working like and like maybe you are all 100 instances and different different parts are just waiting. So it's a wastage of resource happening and if the instance one won't get blocked for 1 hour because of some long running task all other instances also get blocked for 1 hour. So go for it only when you have one or two instance and a small batch or you want a strict order whenever you have a strict order that then first this thousand after that this thousand then this,000. So here if you see that our query ordered by okay so we are following certain order and always it f top thousand so now we are following some ordering but if you have a requirement that you don't need to process them in order then we have a better solution which we will see.
