=== 8th Pitfall (Blocking issue with PESSIMISTIC LOCK) (2279s - 2433s) ===

So interview said can we resolve this or we can can we make it more little bit efficient? Yes, we can do that. If strict ordering is not required, then we can do parallel processing. How we can do parallel processing? Pessimistic lock but with skip log feature. But please note that skip log feature is depend upon which DB you are using. So all major DB like MySQL, Postgress, uh they have they support Oracle they support this skip block feature. So what this skip block feature is let's say uh you have thousand records 1 2 3 1 th00and now let's say u instance one instance two instance one has put a lock on this three and first now instance two when it tried to take a lock on this three let's say I have having like top limit three limit three so three rows top three rows it need to log. Now let's say instance one has taken a log. Now instance two will not wait skip log. So these three are locked. So it will skip it and move it to the next three. It will take next three. So that's what the skip log feature allow a query to bypass rows already logged by other transaction. So instance one take first thousand instance two take next thousand and it will go on. So now we are doing parallel processing. Now instance two is not waiting for instance one to release it the first thousand. Okay. Again it's always like top thousand only. Okay. Our query is always top thousand. But if top thousand is logged by somebody else the second instance will not wait. it will pick whatever the next top thousand uh rows it can get. Okay. So no duplicate, no waiting, parallel processing which is good for scalability. So this is how we do that. The query earlier we have put for update. Now we just have like skip log for update skip log you can add it. The syntax might be different. Check like whichever DB you are using. see what is the syntax it support. Okay. And also the DB does support a skip log or not. But in my view all major DBs are supporting a skip log.
