=== 6th Pitfall (Huge SQL Round trips) (1511s - 1793s) ===

pitfall. So let's understand this use case. So total expired uh data which we are processing is 85,000. The same example we are doing we are making a get call right to process to fetch the data from DB. Let's say 85,000 and the batch size is of a,000 and total number of batches is 85. This is what we have uh done till now. Now every per record what we are doing is we are making one update subscription like we are making the status change to expired and we are deleting the enrollment one delete enrollment delete operation and one update operation. So with every record we are doing two operation. So 1,000 records each batch 1,000 record two SQL operation. So 2,000 SQL operation per batch like this we have 85 batches. So appro 1 lakh 70,000 SQL statement you are doing. So up and down one SQL statement you can say that a round trip. So 1 lak 70,000 round trips you are doing it's like a network call. Okay. So consider this as an add-up latency. So you have to be very very uh like do a proper analysis of your latency when you are working with scheduleuler like how many SQL operations maximum your batch can do. Okay. So currently at this example which we are dealing with and the example which we have taken around 1 lak 70,000 SQL round trips will happen. Okay. Can we save it? Yes, we can follow hibernate batching. Okay. So, internally still there would be like one lakh 70,000 SQL execution itself. Okay. So even though no matter how you have to do still the number of SQL operation is same for each record one you have to do update you have to do delete for record two update delete like this 85,000 record you have to do update and delete so we are not reducing the number of operation what we are reducing is the number of calls like first Round trip for update you are making let's say one round trip for record two you are making one route trip like this making you are making one route trip for each and every operation can we reduce it yes like batch so in hibernate we have something called springjpa hibernate dot jdbc dotbatch size 50 so what we are saying is that club 50 operation once and send it in a single shot. Okay. And also one more thing is this is very important order update equals to true. So why it is important is let's say without order update what would happen is let's say currently I'm doing update subscription then update enrollment update subscription then update enrollment. If you are not allowing hibernate to do reordering, so it's like subscription table, enrollment table, subscription table, enrollment table. So it will not be able to do proper grouping. So your batch will not might not work properly. Okay. So if you need a proper batching, you need to allow hibernate that hey you are allowed to do reordering. So now with this one, it can reorder. All subscriptions can be grouped together. All enrollment update should be grouped together and and as soon as the batch size become 50. Okay, it send them together using one JDBC batch call and because of this we have a lower CPU usage and shorter job duration which ultimately impact our you can say the latency. We have a job duration very less all the network calls we are reducing actually. Okay. So hibernate batching can be an answer if interviewer say that hey can we improve more. Okay we have already done improvement through batch then batch plus transaction for each batch we are having a transaction so we improve the memory. Okay and then further we can improve through hibernate batching.
