=== 4th Pitfall (First Level Cache issue) (510s - 895s) ===

memory leak here itself in the batch processing. So interer will say you that hey even after batch processing your memory issue will not fix. Why? It's because the problem is we have put at the rate transactional at top of this or you can say that even if not here if you have add the rate transactional at very very top level. So what would happen? So even though you are running multiple batch batch one batch two batch 85 but all of these batches are part of only one transactional one transaction and because of this if you can recall in a spring boot I have told you about the first level caching okay so that's where the problem is So everything is running under one big add the rate transactional. All 85 batch the small small batch are part of one transaction only. And in JPA we have something called persistence context which maintains or you can say that which is helpful in maintaining the first level cache. And this persistence context maintains the reference of all entities loaded during the transaction. And since this is maintaining the reference when you are saying that garbage collector can reclaim memory will it? No. Because persistence context is maintaining the reference. So with batch one 10 MB batch 2 so it's become keep on growing 10 MB plus 10 MB. So this memory will keep on growing as you run the batch. Okay. So memory issue ultimately you can say that uh delayed but it will eventually come because of first level cache. So also I want to uh just take couple of minutes more that when you are dealing with normal spring boot application rest API HTTP request. Okay then by default open session in view is enabled. In that way what happen is when the request comes okay at that time itself for each request persistence context is created okay so no matter if you have one transaction two transaction three transaction for each request one persistence context is created. So when the filter comes it create a new persistence context object then it goes to a controller service repository and no matter how many transactions you create okay within this request itself all will share the one persistence context okay you can anyway disable it so in application.properties properties you can do JPA spring.jpa.open- iny- view equals to false and when you make it false what happen is the persistence context life is only restricted to your transaction scope by default it's for each request when request enters and the when before the request goes. So it have persistence context life cycle is this. But if you don't want you want for each transaction you can make open - in- view equals to false. Now your persistence context will be created only when transaction is created. Okay. So if you create let's say this is transaction one. If you create transaction two for that also new persistence context will be created. Okay. And now in scheduleuler there is no HTTP request. Okay. So there is no concept of you can say that open session in view enabled. You can't enable it. So by default for scheduleulers you can say that it's always false. So for each transaction a new persistence context is created. Okay. So this is uh just a heads up on the first level caching part. Now we know the solution. What to do? The solution here is that for each batch we have batch one, batch two, batch 85. Here I am fetching 1,000 records. Here I am fetching 1,000 records. Here I am fetching 1,000 records. For each batch we can have a transaction new transaction because when for each batch we have a transaction and this will finish its job. Ultimately the first level catch you can say that its uh life is scope its scope of life is just for this transaction only for this batch. Once this is completed the persistence context will destroy it and the reference is also destroyed in the first level cache persistence context then it is eligible for GC GC will remove it. Okay. So that's what I have done here. So I have if you see I have removed the add the transaction from here. Okay. And all the logic I have just created another class at the rate service annotated with and all the logic for the batch. Okay, fetch 1 th00and records and then for each record change it to expired and delete the enrollment and keep on running. Okay, all for thousand records here I'm keep on running. So this is one batch processing. So I have annotated with at the rate transitional. Okay. And from the parent I am just iterating the while loop. So for batch one it will run then batch two then batch three then batch four and for each batch I am having at the rate transaction make sense so that also problem is resolved.
