=== 3rd Pitfall (Out of Memory issue) (219s - 510s) ===

third pitfall is fetching huge data. the memory issue. What is this problem? [clears throat] So now we have a transactional. Okay, well and good. This query in schedule shoulder could be an issue. Why? Because schedule should scheduleuler is like hey find by expiry date before this time. So it's possible that you are fetching so many records. It's possible in scheduulers when you are dealing with a scheduulers and you do a get call to work on certain data it's possible that your query is fetching so many records and let's say in the example which I'm taking if 85,000 records this query is fetching and each record is 10 KB then it's around 850 MB of data just from this query alone and let's say it's all hypothetical If JVM heap is 512 MB the result you will get is out of memory Java heap space and what will happen is the next time scheduleuler run the same issue. So it will always fail always. Okay. So fetching huge data is a very big pitfall you can say that when you're dealing with scheduulers and its solution is batch processing. So here how I converted this uh code change is like while true. Okay so continue and here now in each query I am fetching top 1,000 records itself. Okay. So the query I have modified with limit thousand. So what it will do is it will fetch the top 1,000 records only. Okay. And here if you see also I have added a status that not in expired because see earlier you were running the query only one time. So there is no point of like let's say that give me the all the data expired which are not in expired. Okay but date has passed through. So fetch me all the data. So you are running it only one time. Now in the batch processing the major thing we have to uh take note of it is that you are running in a while loop continuously because you have to fetch all the records. You are keep on fetching thousand thousand records. Okay. So you have to make sure that you don't end up in infinite loop because see this is very critical. You are within a while true loop. Okay. So you should not end up in infinite looping. So that's where I am focusing more here is that have a proper query double check your query that it do not end up in infinite loop. Okay. So here when I f the top thousand records what I am doing is I change their status to expired. So that's where I'm just checking and status is not in expired so that I always get new records which I have to work on and only 1,000. Okay. So this is another solution for the pitfall is that uh when you have working with huge data don't just hit one query follow the batch processing and while following the batch processing make sure you have you don't end up in infinite loop and I told you that here whatever the status you are updating depending upon your business logic your query should be such that it excludes those are already executed. Okay. So now what would happen? Now I am fetching thousand record at a time. So how many times it will run? Batch one,000 records. Batch two,000 records. Similarly batch 85,000 records. So all 85,000 records will get processed into 85 batch small chunks. Now each 1,000 record is of now 10 MB. Okay. So earlier we have 1850 MB in one shot. Now each batch is of only 10 MB and once the work is completed GC can reclaim this memory. Okay. So once the work is completed it they are free to go. They are free uh garbage collector is free to remove them from the heap. Similarly now for bash two we are working in small small chunks. Okay. So this is batch processing. Clear but there is a problem with
