=== How records of Aborted Transactions are skipped (1008s - 1578s) ===

How we will skip aborted record? So, see this one very important part is broker consumer. When the consumer do poll, broker only filtered, it only filter control records. Control records. It don't send control records. Fine. But, it do send records which are aborted. Uh with records which are aborted. So, if consumer read blindly with this simple logic that LSO read everything, read every offset which is less than LSO, then it is possible that it will read the records which are part of aborted transaction. So, alone LSO is not sufficient. So, how consumer get to know what all records I need to skip which are part of aborted? That's where broker comes into the picture. Broker provide one more information to consumer, a file. You can say that it's a aborted file transaction. So, whenever any record which is or transaction which is aborted, broker is store some information in the separate file. And that file is given to the consumer. I will show you with an example. Understand this one. Okay? So, now here, if you see PID five epoch zero, this is part of one transaction, PID five epoch zero, and this is their commit. So, this is committed. Offset two, PID eight epoch one, this is aborted. This is aborted. This is committed. Okay? Similarly, PID nine epoch zero, this is committed. Okay? And PID eight epoch one, transactional true. So, see, now one very interesting point. I told you that producer is single-threaded transaction. Okay? So, when one transaction is going on, till it is not committed or aborted, you can you cannot initiate another transaction. Okay? So, that's where I showed you that here, if you see PID eight epoch one. So, this is PID eight epoch one. So, this is one transaction with PID eight epoch one. Okay? This is one transaction going on. So, first this transaction got committed or aborted. So, this got aborted. So, means this got completed. So, this transaction got completed. So, now here, if you see again, PID epoch one. Another transaction. PID epoch one, with same. Because your producer can be same. And I in the producer video, you got to know that producer transaction video, you know that it is just a uh version of a producer. So, it's possible that same producer Okay, same version. It is starting multiple transaction. Okay, but only if you see that the first PID and epoch one once we have a control record, after that you have another record with transaction true and then recorded. Okay, and here if you see it's control record here. Okay, it's control record committed. Now, you have to consumer has to read this. Now, let's say consumer is following read committed. Means consumer has to read all the commit transaction all non-transactional records and has to skip aborted and open transaction. So, that's the requirement. So, what all things it will read? So, first of all what broker will return? Broker will return offset zero offset one offset two offset three it's a control, so it will be skipped. Offset four offset five is control this will be skipped. Offset six is control record that would be skipped. Offset seven offset eight is control and that would be skipped. So, this all would be returned by broker to consumer. But here notice that this producer ID epoch one offset two one is aborted. This need to be skipped. But not this one. This producer ID epoch one the same. Offset two has producer ID epoch one. Offset seven also has producer ID epoch one same. But this one is committed this one is aborted. So, while reading consumer should only skip this offset two. How it will get to know that? Okay. So this one I already told you that we only need to skip offset two not offset seven even though they attached the same producer ID epoch one. So, answer is broker itself. Broker provide store maintain this file. Abort file. You can say that. .txn index whenever any transaction is aborted it is stored information like hey, this is the PID eight epoch is one first index is two and the control last it's control index last is six. So, here if you see whenever this abort come so, it has that hey, this is the producer ID PID eight epoch one so, it's first record it's first record comes at offset two and the control record it's come at this offset six. So, it is stored this information and it send this to consumer also. Now, it send this to consumer also. So, how consumer use this? So, consumer will say that okay, offset zero should I have to skip it or not? Now, let's say that LSO is there is no open transaction. So, LSO is pointing to let's say till offset eight now, so LSO is pointing to nine on itself. LSO equals to nine. Okay, let's say. So, the consumer will read less than LSO which is nine. Okay, so offset zero less than LSO yes, good. But do I still could be a part of aborted? I need to check. So, it will use this. Hey PID one in the aborted one PID eight epoch one. This is PID five different. Read it. So, it will properly accept this and read it. Next offset PID five epoch one offset one is less than nine yes, read one filter passed. Second filter is is it aborted or not? PID eight epoch one this is PID five epoch zero different. Read it properly. Then offset two offset two is less than LSO nine yes, one filter is passed. Then I need to check whether it's a part of aborted or not. PID eight epoch one PID eight epoch one yes, same. First offset two and the last record control comes at six. So, is it the offset between this two? It is offset two yes. So, means it's a part of aborted transaction so, skip it. Similarly, offset four offset four less than LSO nine yes and PID nine epoch zero different. So, read it. Now, offset seven seven is less than LSO yes, filter passed. Now, whether it's an aborted? PID eight epoch one yes but the first offset is two and the control it's come at six. So, it's range is seven after this. So, means it's a second transaction not the one which was aborted. So, this would be accepted. So, this is how consumer handle ongoing transaction with the help of LSO commit generally it simply you can say that do not handle it. Only thing is it handle aborted. Okay, through this file .txn index file. Okay, so it it skip ongoing open transaction it is skip aborted ultimately read rest all. Clear? So, this is how the transaction index looks like whenever there is an aborted and this is the information it passed. If you see that transaction index dump producer ID epoch version first offset last offset. Last offset is nothing but a your control a statement for this one. Okay. And LSO last stable offset it just recorded. But also it stored in in memory also. So, let's see a demo.
