=== EOS (Exactly one Semantics) Problem and Solution (1989s - 2330s) ===

while we discuss that what all problem exist, I told that there is one problem. Read, process, write problem which exist at consumer side problem. So, the problem is that consumer first do the read. Okay, let's say when it read the record 50 comes. Okay. A record with offset 50. One record with offset 50 comes. It processes it. Read, process and then it try to write or publish to another topic, let's say. It publishing an event again. And it does that. And after that it trying to commit the offset, but that got failed. So, when the consumer try to do poll again, it will again get this record with offset 50 because it is not yet committed. Offset is not yet committed. So, it will get the same offset. It will do the same processing and it will publish the event again. So, there is a process There is a possibility that you publish the same event again. How to You can say that how to uh remove this problem? See, one thing is which transaction cannot help is that if you are not publishing to another event, only this. Then you can say that also, hey this is also duplicate. It is processing the record duplicate. But this is not what transaction can help you with. What if you are processing record is like sending email? Sending email. So, you you got this record. You send an email. And while committing the offset it got failed. While again reading you got the same offset. You again send mail. You can't undo that one, right? Even though it's a duplicate, it's an external system. You can't undo that. So, transaction do not help in this one. What transaction help saying that, hey if you have this scenario when you read this maybe whatever the processing after you are writing to an another event. Okay. So, if commit is offset commit is lost, then it is possibility that you will write again. So, that can be solved through transaction. Because now we are internal to Kafka. Reading is internal. Publishing to an event is internal and committing offset is internal. That if it is internal to Kafka, that can be controlled. And this is what EOS. Very frequently asked, what is EOS in Kafka? Exactly one semantic problem. And this is exact EOS problem. You can say that. Read, process, write problem. Okay. So, above problem happened because write and commit offset is a separate step. So, you first write into an event. You are write an event and after you trying to commit the offset. Now, offset commit fail. That's why you are reading it again. You are processing it and you are publishing to an another again. Because this is separate step. Step one, step two. So, what it does is in EOS guarantee that there should not be any duplicate in consumer when consumer is doing reading the offset and then publishing it to another event. In that scenario the EOS says that exactly one semantic, no duplicate. Okay. And how it will do? It will group into one atomic transaction. Publish to topic and offset commit tied together into one transaction. If one fails like both will fail. You can say that. So, in this use case read, process, write and then commit offset. EOS achieve through read committed. So, your consumer should be isolation level read committed. Okay. And since consumer also has to publish also has to publish an event, right? So, idempotency and transaction should be enabled. So, EOS achieve through See, I'm talking at consumer side. Don't get mixed it with producer. So, consumer is doing both. So, it is reading and then publishing to an offset publishing to a particular topic. And then doing offset commit. Okay. So, consumer is doing both. Reading part and publishing also. So, that's why EOS says that it can be only achieved when consumer is following read committed plus since it is also performing producer role, it should be idempotency and transaction. Generally, if you are doing transaction, idempotency is already enabled. But it's still specifically in the definition it's mentioned like this. Okay. And what does it does is it combine into one atomicity of this part. Write or commit offset. Okay. If commit offset fail, this write will also fail. When this commit get properly done, then only this write is properly singed up. And how? Very simple.
