=== LSO (Last Stable Offset) (243s - 610s) ===

how consumer knows that what to do with open transaction, committed transaction, or aborted transaction? What to do? So, there is a one important concept, LSO, last stable offset comes into the picture. So, last stable offset, you can consider it as a pointer. This LSO points to the first message that is open. Okay. Or you can say that first message that belongs to an open transaction. For example, you have begin transaction. Send event, send event, send event, send event. You have multiple, but currently commit or aborted not yet happen. So, you have And all goes to the same topic and same partition. For example, so you have multiple offset zero, offset one, offset two. Okay. So, this record goes at offset zero. This got offset one, offset two. But commit and abort not yet happen. Okay. So, LSO points to the first message that belongs to open transaction. So, LSO points to offset zero. So, means this is still open. Okay. First message of the open transaction. Understand with this an example. Everything get clear. Let's say this is a topic order hyphen event, partition P2 and its log file. In this all log file, I have five offset. The first offset, zero. PID five, epoch zero, is transaction true, record one. So, consider that it is a transaction one. So, you have one producer. Okay. Let's say producer one. So, it transaction is going on. Its transaction is going on. It has PID five. Epoch is zero. Okay. And it has put one record, send. So, this is its record. Then I have another offset, another record, PID five, epoch zero. So, again, the same part of a same transaction. PID five, epoch zero. And another send it might have done. So, which goes to offset one. Currently, it is open. No commit, no offset yet done. Now, offset two, PID eight. Some different producer ID, epoch one. So, some different producer. Let's say producer two. And its transaction, begin transaction. It has PID eight. Epoch one. Okay. And is transaction true, just begin transaction. So, record one. So, it has make one send. So, this is its record. Similarly, I have PID five, epoch zero. PID five, epoch zero. So, this is the one, this transaction. We are talking about this transaction. I already told you in transaction in a particular producer, it's single-threaded. So, till this transaction is not yet committed or aborted, no other transaction can start. Okay. So, now, PID five, epoch zero. So, means I am talking about this transaction. Its control equals to true. So, this is a control record. And it is committed. So, means it is doing commit here. Okay. And it is committed. So, means this record transaction one, this two. PID five, epoch zero. This is committed here. Okay. It has a control record. Now, at offset four, PID nine, epoch zero. So, here we are talking about, let's say producer three. It has a begin transaction. PID nine. Epoch zero. It made its first send. Record comes. After that, offset five, PID nine, epoch zero. So, this transaction, this transaction we are talking about, it has a control record true, commit. So, it made a commit. So, this is also committed. But here, if you see, this transaction, this transaction is still open. It is not yet committed or aborted. This is still open. So, what how how consumer read this events? Okay. So, for first thing first, I told you that LSO plays a major role. LSO is that first message that belongs to open transaction. So, it goes from the sequential offset zero one. What is the first you can say that record which is open? Offset two. This is open. It is not yet closed. Transaction two. Uh PID eight, epoch one. It is not yet open. Okay. So, LSO equals to two. So, it's a pointer. After that, no matter you have offset six, offset 10, these are also open, doesn't matter. LSO only points to the first record which is open. Okay. Now, how consumer get benefited with this LSO information? So, consumer, remember that whenever the consumer read from broker, broker always delivered the data in order from the partition. So, in this partition two, so whatever the consumer will read, it will read in order. Offset zero, then one, then two, then three, whatever. Okay? So, it should be ordering. So, how consumer benefited with this LSO information?
