=== Demo (1578s - 1989s) ===

But I hope this thing is clear. Okay. So, my servers controllers are running brokers are all running. Okay, so let me start producer is running. So, consumer So, first thing in the consumer application.properties I have set read committed. That's all. Okay. And now, let's see this one. What happens? I just set this one. And let me start the consumer application. send the commit. Okay, if you have already followed the producer transaction you have already seen this API first. So order three I am hitting so, it read consumer read it properly. And also if we see uh let me see in which partition it goes. It goes into order goes into partition one. Goes into partition one. Partition one who is the owner of partition one? Let me see. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Just a sec. So, we have three brokers, right? So, partition order even partition one and uh let me check first broker one is the leader. Okay, so order three goes yeah. So, it goes to the broker one itself. So o-3 so, if you see transaction true producer ID zero epoch zero transaction true this is the record. And this is the control record for this producer ID epoch commit. And our consumer able to read it properly. Okay. So, see this one. Partition one leader was three which is broker one. Okay. Now I am testing the abort scenario. Abort scenario o-4 let's send it. Aborted. Does our consumer read it? No, o-4 doesn't come. It is skip it. But let's validate our understanding. So, we first need to see at which partition it goes in the producer it goes to the partition two offset two. Partition two leader is four which is your uh broker two. Okay, broker two is your four because controller one is ID one controller two is ID two controller three is your broker one and controller uh broker four is your ID four. Broker two is ID4. So, we need to check the broker two logs. Partition two, right? So, it goes into partition two. Okay. Yes. So, let me hit it. So, here if you see O-4. So, this is first. Is transactional true? Okay. O-4. And here if you see the same producer ID epoch. Is transactional true? Control true and this is aborted. So, don't worry about the this one because see I'm making this video in continuity of producer transaction. So, that's why my application was on controller and broker was all running. And in the producer transaction, I have also demoed the aborted scenario. Okay. How aborted get appended to the logs. So, this is from that one. Okay. So, I'm making the video in continuation. So, that's why these records are from the previous part. But this is O-4 is something which we have just done now. So, this when the producer has done So, first it got a record here which is is transactional and this is the producer ID and epoch. And since it is aborted then we have a control record and abort. But here if you see our consumer haven't read it O-4. How? Now, if you see the broker two and partition two, right? So, this is order-event-2. So, this is the partition two. So, here if you see it maintain {dot} txn index. So, currently we are seeing the log file. So, this is our log file we are seeing. Now, if we just see txn What was that? txn index. So, if you see this, what it maintains? Producer ID, version, first offset two last offset three. So, here if you see offset two. O-4. Last offset which is the control one. So, offset three is the one which is control record abort. So, that information is stored and this file only help consumer to know which transactions to skip because they are aborted. Got it? Clear? Very important LSO. Which is used to skip open transaction. And uh the transaction index abort file. You can say that abort file. Which tell consumer that these all records belongs to a abort transaction. So, you skip it. Rest all trans Rest all records consumer read it. Now, if you remember the producer transaction
