=== EOS Code Demo (2330s - 2694s) ===

Okay. Everything we have seen. So, now application.properties, you know that consumer has lot of properties added. Okay. So, one thing isolation level we want is read committed. Auto commit is false. We don't want to enable the auto commit. So, one thing we have to just make it false. And since we are also has to do the producer level task of transaction, so you just simply add transaction ID prefix. Give some transaction ID. And this two you don't have to do it because by default when transaction is enabled, idempotency set to true and acknowledges all. But just for specific, I am adding it that idempotency should be true and acknowledgement should be all. But by default it will get enabled only when you have added the transaction. So, this is the property you have to add. Now how the code changes would look like for the read, write, read process, write. So one thing is that very simple. So here if you see I have a Kafka listener. So you know that in consumer what happened is that for each record this listener will get invoked. Correct? So means read is happened. Now I have started a transaction producer. Now I'm doing producing part. Kafka template. execute in transaction. In the producer transaction part I have told you that it internally it just begin the transaction then invoke this lambda and then commit or abort if there is any exception. So read is already happened here. Okay, any process you have to do, do it. If you don't have to do it, don't do it. Okay, so step two is optional process. Okay? So read is happened. Now is that we have to write to particular topic. So I'm writing. Payment event key and result. Okay, this is your object. This is key and this is topic. Okay? So now here if you see what we are doing is we have to in the one transaction we are trying to tie up right and offset commit part. So right I have added. Now offset commit part. So on offset commit part I am just saying I am not committing here at this point of time. I am just adding into the buffer that okay. See offset.put. Okay, for this record, for this topic, this partition this topic and whatever the partition okay? We have to increase the offset. Plus one. So manually what I am doing is I am just increasing the counter of the offset for this topic, this partition and just put into a buffer. So this is important. Send offset to transaction. It is not here sending. It is not invoking broker. Commit offset. No. You can say that it just put into buffer. Okay? It just put into buffer that for this topic, this partition, this is the offset we have to commit. Now after either commit or abort that would be the point when it is commit ultimately it will also send offset commit to the broker. So here from this buffer it will read and send the command to the broker. That for this topic, this partition, this is the offset need to need to update. Okay, but if there is an abort, it do not even send it. It do not even send it. Okay? So that's what it So see EOS is no just the you can say that a term exactly once semantic. Okay? But only thing is this is just one problem. When consumer is reading the record plus writing the record. So this problem can come when there is an offset commit. Because see one is said read it write it but it offset commit failed. Then it again during the next read it will again read it, again write the same thing. So that is one problem and that problem name is given EOS. How to solve this problem through EOS. Exactly once semantic. So since it is reading it, the consumer should follow read commit it and since it's also producing it, so it should also have a proper transaction and item potency. And a very simple part I have told you that the main goal here is to group together in one atomic operation this right part this right part and this offset part. So this are the two rights which are happening, right? So just club together into one transaction. Okay, so it read it properly. Okay? Now in one transaction the right part and this This is the only part which we have to see that send offset to transaction. Okay? This is used to just buffer. That for this topic, this partition, this is the counter we have to This is the offset we have to update. But it will not update now. It will be done into commit. And during abort case when we have an abort case, exception case, this will command would not be sent to a broker to update it. Clear?
