=== Introduction (0s - 243s) ===

And in the previous video of producer transaction part, we have already seen how transaction is handled at producer side. Now, how transaction or the records which are part of the transaction are handled by consumer that we will see today. So, the records can be only in three state. One is open, like ongoing. One is committed and aborted. So, records can be a part of transaction which is aborted or committed or this transaction is still open. So, how do you know a transaction is still open? Generally, let's say this is a record. Okay. So, this is a part of this producer ID and epoch. So, this is producer ID and epoch. And this is is transaction true. Okay. So, this is part of a transaction, this transaction. But there is no control record. So, means this is still open. No no yet control record for commit or abort it. For committed, you will have a record and then for this record, producer ID and epoch, you have a control record. Commit. Similarly, for abort, similarly, you have producer ID epoch. PID and epoch. This is is transaction true, control false. So, this is a record. And for this record, there is a control record true. Same producer ID epoch, but with abort. Okay. So, this is the only three possible state. And also in the producer, I told you that transaction transaction in producer is single-threaded. Okay. Single-threaded means, let's say transaction one. When the transaction one is open, you cannot have another transaction open. Okay. So, at a time, you can have one transaction. So, this producer ID and epoch is sufficient to uniquely identify the transaction. Okay. So, let's say this is For example, you are starting a new transaction, begin transaction. So, you have PID one. Epoch, let's say zero. One, epoch is zero. You have its record. And then you have a control record. Okay. After this control record only, whether commit or abort, you can another have another transaction. Okay. The same PID, same producer ID, same epoch. Okay. And its record. So, after that, you can still have same producer ID zero. Epoch is still zero. Its record. And then its control record, whether commit or abort. So, it is easily understandable that once you have a record, you can have so many send events. You can have so many events. Let's say send. Send. Order events again. Partition P2. Let's say this is partition P2 of order hyphen events only. You can send multiple send records. Order hyphen events, partition P2. You can have multiple events. Okay. Possible. Okay. But till the one transaction, after that, you will do commit or abort, right? So, after this control record only, you can have another is transaction equals to true. Okay. With the same producer ID epoch and then its control. Okay. So, things will get more clear, but at this point of time, all I want is that our record can be in three state, ongoing, commit, abort. And this producer ID and epoch is sufficient to uniquely identify the transaction. And as we proceed further, things will get more clear. Now, the question might comes that, okay,
