=== Isolation Level (Read_Committed)  in Consumer (610s - 1008s) ===

So, consumer first we have to add a spring.kafka.consumer.properties.isolation.level. So, read uncommitted is the default. Even if you don't write it, the default is read uncommitted. Uncommitted means that read everything. And remember that the broker never return control records. Is control equals to true? Broker never return it. So, it is filtered at broker layer itself. Filtered at broker layer itself. So, when you have isolation level read uncommitted, which is default, even if you don't write it, it is uncommitted only, you will get all the records. You will get offset zero, offset one, offset two, this is a control record, so this will get a skip, offset four, this is offset five is control record, so this will be skipped. So, you will get zero, one, two, and four. You will get zero, one, two, and four. Only skip is control record, which is filtered by broker itself. So, no matter whether it's a transaction record part of a transaction which is committed or aborted or open, doesn't matter. When you have read uncommitted, you are able to see everything. But, when you choose isolation level read committed, means what all records would be visible to you? You will all the records which are marked as committed would be visible. Non-transactional would be visible. The records which are not part of any transaction, that would be visible. But, aborted records, the records which are part of aborted transaction, that won't be visible. And also, the open transactions, which are not either committed or aborted, that won't be visible, too. Okay? And similarly, control records, which is not even sent by broker, so control records are also not visible. So, in short, you would be seeing only non-transactional records, the records which are not part of any transaction, those would be visible, and only committed one. And only committed one. So, in this example, what would be visible? Offset zero, offset one, part of committed, so yes, you would be able to see offset zero, you would be able to see offset one. But here, if you see offset two is open. Okay? So, that won't be visible. And after that, you can't even if you see the offset four is committed. So, as per you, hey, Shreyansh, you said that all the committed transaction should be visible. So, offset four, which is see, this is control record committed. So, this should be visible now. But, no. That is not visible. So, only zero and one would be visible. Now, the question can come, why? Why not offset four? See, that's where LSO comes into the picture. I told you that broker guarantee that when you are reading from a particular partition, you would read in order. Zero, one, two, three, four, like this. Okay? Now, here, and whatever we are saying that the open transaction should not be visible when we are following the read committed isolation level. So, how to skip? The first question is, how to skip open transaction? So, that's where LSO help us. So, we know that LSO points to the record, first record, which is open. Okay? So, now, when consumer is start reading, so it will read offset zero. Yes. Okay? It doesn't know whether it it is committed. Okay? So, it will read it. I will tell you forget about aborted one. Okay? First, let's discuss on open and commit. Open and commit. Aborted one, let's keep it aside. I will come again. First, assume that we had only have uh records which are either open or committed. So, now let's see. Consumer is start reading it. Okay? So, here, LSO is two. So, first offset zero. Zero is less than two? Yes, read it. Then comes one. One is less than two? Yes, read it. So, zero is read, one is read. Then comes offset two. Two is less than LSO, LSO is two. So, two is less than two, false. Uh stop. Consumer will not read from this point because this is open. Not yet closed, not yet committed or aborted, so this is open. So, consumer will stop. Now, you can say that why consumer cannot skip and read this four? Because I told you that broker guarantees that in a particular partition, order is guaranteed. So, it is possible that after a specific uh sometime time out, this might get uh committed, for example. This might get committed. So, zero, one, but if you skip at this point of time, and you read four, then you are breaking this guarantee, ordering guarantee. Okay? So, we should not break this guarantee. So, that's where LSO helps that, hey, this is the first open transaction, you should not read beyond this point. Okay? Wait for it to get complete. Okay? So, when we have open and commit transaction, that is properly handled. So, it just simply read blindly. Read all the offset less than LSO. So, keep on reading, reading, reading, and as soon as the LSO point comes, it will stop, means there is an open transaction. Don't read this and beyond. Okay? Now, you can say that, hey, if you are saying that read blindly, there could be possible that records are part of aborted transaction. Then how to skip it? For example, in this case itself, what if this PID epoch zero, instead of this commit, there is abort? Then how you will skip this? That's the next thing.
