=== Topology (147s - 620s) ===

Okay. Now we know what is a stream, the very important part. You can say that it's an heart of the stream, the topology. Now, let me stop it here and I will tell you once the context here. Like don't skip this part. Like if you are trying to understand the architecture, don't skip this part because after that like even if you are proceeding with the syntax, like how to create a stream and different processors in the streams, without this it will not get clear and it is not very simple. Okay? So, I'll try to go little slow because from here itself now you can see that the real architecture of Kafka streams will start. So, it's a logical flow of how data moves and get proceed from source topic to sink sink topics. This flow is like a DAG, directed acyclic graph. Data flow in one direction, no loops, no cycle. Okay? So, what does it mean? Topology. Topology means you can say that an assembly line in a factory. So, you have a factory. So, it's like a first raw material. Then after that different steps like you cut it, you paint it, you package it. Then after that you will ultimately ship it. So, you have a source. You have a sink. Okay? And then you have processors, like different different steps. So, you always So, it's a DAG, directed acyclic graph. Means you always you have a start point, you have an end point, and from a start when you always move forward. There is no loop or cycle. Okay? You always move forward and ultimately reach to a sink. Okay? So, there can be Why it is a graph? Because there can be multiple source, there can be multiple sinks, or there can be join also. I will show you. But, in simple, at this point of time, we need to understand that topology is like logical flow of how data moves and get processed from source topics to sinks topic. So, here if you see, we have a source. Let's say topic is order-event. So, from here we have to read it. So, it's like a raw material. In a factory example, it's a raw material. Okay? And after that, we have our processors, which can have, let's say, multiple steps, like cut, paint, package. Okay? And ultimately, we have a sink, the output topic, like a shipping of a finished material. So, source is like an entry point, read record from one or more Kafka topics, no parent processor, and source also like you can say that here de- we deserialize bytes to key-value pair, forward record to its child processor. Okay? Now, here is our actual business logic where transformation happens. Okay? You add filters, you add different groups. We will see that. At this point of time, you also don't have to worry about like what all different processors present and all, because we are understanding architecture. We will see processors later. So, we have a business logic here, like multiple steps we can do. Okay? And you can say that we have When you have a step one, a step two. So, whenever data moves from a step one, it do certain transformation and then pass it to step two. It do certain transformation, pass it to the step three. Like this it data flows. Okay? And ultimately it reach to the sink, exit point, where record we write record to the Kafka topic. Okay? So, this is let's say that for a stateless processing. Stateless processing and we have a stateful processing. If you have seen this Kafka stream introduction, we have stateless processing and stateful processing. So, in a stateful processing, we also uh store certain state. Okay? While processing the record, so this is our source, or raw material you can say that. So, we have this source topic. From me, this source topic we read even one by one and then we processes it. Our business logic we can have multiple step, step one, step two, step three, step four. Okay? So, it It is possible that in certain step we have to save the state. Let's say we are reading total number of products. Okay? So, product ID wise. So, let's say we we have to store product ID one, then two, then three. So, we have to store it somewhere, right? So, based on this for a stateful processing, if you have certain processor it has processors have you can say that multiple steps, you can say that multiple processing. So, if certain processing need to maintain the state, it store it into the RocksDB. We'll see that. Okay? So, this definition is clear? Logical flow of data, which moves and get processed from source topics to sinks topic. This is a DAG, data flow in one direction, no loops and cycles. So, we define it once during application startup and after the Kafka stream executed forever. So, topology is like we define it into our configuration. And when your application is start, after that we can't change it. Okay? So, after that this topology is used. We will see that, but at this point of time just understand that during application startup it reads our topology. So, different examples of topology. Let's say simple linear topology. You have a source. From source you get the data one by one. Then this is our processors. Like multiple steps you can say, multiple processing. Filter. Let's say greater than 100. Okay? Don't worry about this for now. Just assume that these are different processings. Step step two. So, filter then it maps. Ultimately uh goes to the sink and to the output topic. So, this is linear. Then we have branching topology. The source. From this source we will read even one by one. And then we have multiple processing. You can say that branch what we have. Filter greater than equals to 1,000, it goes to this branch. If filter if your order is less than 1,000 rupees, let's say, it goes to a different branch. Okay? So, its step would be different. And ultimately it will get sink. It is step would be different. Ultimately it will get sink. Multi-source join topology. You have multiple source. Then you will do a join. And ultimately you sink it. Okay? So, this is just an example that I just wanted to mention that topology is not like a linear one like this simple. It's not just like us linear. It can have a branch. It can have a join. That's why I said it's a DAG. A graph. Directed acyclic graph. Like it's but there would you will not find any loop or circle. Okay? So, that's the same thing I mentioned here. At this point of time, let's not worry about how to create a stream. What are the different processors like filter, map? Don't worry about this one. Okay? How to put that result into the sink and all. So, the over agenda here is to understand the architecture. Okay? Next part we will cover these topics. Okay? So, focus on the architecture part. Don't worry about again that Okay, filter, how to define that filter. Or what all other processings are available. So, topology is clear, right? Now, the next very important part is
