=== Task (620s - 824s) ===

task. Read this once. It's a unit of parallelism. You can say that the small one task Uh you can say that the smallest unit which cannot be break further. I In a simple way I can say that it say that unit of parallelism. What does it mean? Like when we say parallelism, it's like we are running multiple task task one task two task three in parallel. Okay? Within one task you can't run anything in parallel. That's why it's a unit of parallelism, the smallest task or the smallest unit. Okay? So, when we say parallelism in a stream, it's mean multiple task are running in parallel. Okay? Each task has complete topology. Means every task has this complete topology what we have defined. Means Let's say this is my task. Any event come. Okay? So, this is picked by a task and it has a complete topology. Like source, then you have a processors, then sink. So, that will get processed. Okay? Each task has its complete topology. Number of task equals to number of partitions. Each task run one partition. So, take an example. I have a topic, order-events, which has two part partition, P0 and P1. So, as per the definition, we can have maximum two tasks, task one, task two. Okay? So, this task you can say that for each partition, one task is get created. So, and each task has the full topology. So, this is topology, source. Okay? So, this source is like topic, order-events, partition P0. Then, the processors like different step, step one, step two, step three. And if they have to if this task has to store something, it maintain its own RocksDB. Okay? And then, sync. Similarly, we have task two. Its source is order-events, partition P1. The complete topology it it has it has multiple processors, step one, step two, step three. It if it need to store certain information, it maintain its own RocksDB. And ultimately sync it. Clear? So, task is a unit of parallelism. When we are saying parallelism in Kafka Streams means two tasks are running in parallel. Okay? But, events within a task processed one by one. So, now, one thing is at this point of time, who already works with Kafka Streams, at this point of time, when I said each task has complete topology, they might have got a doubt. Is it true? Is it like complete topology is hold by one task? Actually, this is wrong. Okay? I'll tell you why. So, I have mentioned here each task has complete topology. Actually, this is not fully true. Why? Let's go one level more deeper. There is a concept of sub-topology. Very
