=== Changelog and RocksDB (2027s - 2589s) ===

So, at this point of time, now you got one doubt regarding RocksDB. So, you might be thinking first is like what is RocksDB? Okay, by the diagram we'll see that if we reconnect the dots from start, each task, so here the last diagram you see, each task, if you see each task, the smallest unit, each task maintain its own RocksDB. Okay? Each task maintain its own RocksDB. So, we have four task, four tasks maintain its own RocksDB. Okay? So, and you know that RocksDB is nothing but a key-value file is stored in local disk. So, RocksDB is nothing but a key-value stored in a file in your disk. So, now the question might have come that, "Okay, so this task is maintain its own RockDB file. This task is maintain its own RockDB file. And this two task is running in this instance, instance one. Similarly, task three, task four is maintain their own RockDB files and they are running into this thread and this two threads are running into this application. What if this application get died? So, all this RockDB file will get because it's on a local disk, right? So, this data go get lost. Because see, once your machine get die, this task will be assigned to some other machine. Okay, rebalance will happen. So, okay, earlier your machine one where your instance was running, so they have us like task one, task two, task three, task four. Now, this machine dies, so a new machine would be assigned this task one, task two, task three, task four. But, the question is that each task maintains the RocksDB local file. This maintain its own RocksDB. This maintain its own But, and it's there in the machine one. If the machine one is died, how they task is moved to another machine, but what about the data which is which was present into the local disk? How it will get moved? So, the answer for this is that the change log topic. There is one more topic. like whenever we insert data into the RocksDB. Okay, it will also publish an events to this change log topic. So that even when the machine goes down and the task moves to another machine, they will fetch there is a change log topic. From there it will fetch and rebuild the RocksDB. Okay? So, now see this complete diagram. Things will get clear now. Okay? So, earlier Kafka cluster is you have let's say order events partition zero, partition one. Correct? So now based on your topology, let's say multiple sub topologies created for topologies created, right? So, let's say four tasks created. Tasks So you have just to recap, you have topology you have created. Two sub topology was created. Sub topology zero, sub topology one. Okay? So it put into repartition topic. It will read from repartition topic and ultimately put into the sink. Okay? So now we have four tasks. So the same thing like we have four task one, task two, task three, task four. The same thing here I have written just So task zero zero means sub topology zero, partition zero. So sub topology zero. So sub topology zero was like read from order hyphen events. But it's a task, right? Partition P0. Similarly, sub topology zero, partition one. Source is read from order hyphen events. But partition P1. So that's different task. And the rest of those sub-topology processor select key sync. Okay? Like similarly, we have sub-topology one partition zero. So, sub-topology one says that read from repartition topic. But since this task switch partition P0. Similarly, another partition P1. So, here, if you see, it will sync your sub-topology your task 00. Now, can you read this? When I say task 00, what does it mean? Task 00 means sub-topology task which is associated with sub-topology zero partition zero. So, sub-topology zero, you know that it read from order-events partition P0 now. Okay? And ultimately, it sync into repartition topic. Now, repartition topic here, if you see, has two same P0 P1. So, in which one it will store it? It depend. Okay? Because you will publish on based on the product ID. The key is your product ID. So, whether it will go into P0 or P1 depends. Correct? Now, see this one. I told you that it also has a change log. So, now let's say this step this task is also has certain just assume that certain a step which touch the RocksDB, which it stores into RocksDB. Okay? Similarly, the sub-topology one also has certain a step which touch the RocksDB. So, now you know that there will be change log present for this. There would be a change log present for this also. Okay? So now let's say for the sub topology zero, I have given the RockDB name is let's say order-store. So a change log order-store-changelog will get created. Okay? And it has the same number of partition like your source has. So your source order-event has two partition, right? P0 P1. So this order-store-changelog will also have two, P0 P1. Okay. So this task 00 means sub topology zero, partition zero. So it will sync where? It will sync into P0. The change log it will put into P0. Because it is processing the P0 events. Okay? Similarly, this sub topology zero partition one, the RockDB is let's say order-store, so its change log would be order-store-changelog. And in which change log partition it will publish an event whenever any certain event uh is certain data is updated into RockDB, it will publish an event to the order-store-changelog, but partition P1. Here. So this will touch partition P1 change log. Now sub topology one. Now sub topology one let's say the RockDB is count-store. Okay? Similarly, it has partition P0 partition P1. So this RockDB whenever any change happen, it will publish an event to count-store-changelog. Similarly, this sub topology will have RockDB count-store-changelog, but which partition it will touch? P1. Okay? So, all I just wanted to show that, like even though the RocksDB is local, stored on a local, but it will also publish an event, which ultimately stored into the Kafka cluster, and there is a change log topic itself. In that, it will get it stored. This is clear? Don't worry about this if you have any confusion. At this point of time, agenda is that we know the high level. We know like what is repartition, topology, sub-topology, RocksDB, okay? And uh all this, like I say, complete end-to-end picture should be in mind.
