=== Complete Flow of Stream API (2589s - 3087s) ===

So, now we know the architecture of Kafka stream. Let's see the complete flow, like a Kafka consumer. So, now you will see that, okay, the same flow which we have seen in Kafka consumer, mostly the same. So, step one. Now, let's say our stream application got started. I have given a group ID stream analytics. Okay? So, what it will do? It will find out the consumer offset, like the partition number of the topic consumer offset. So, you know that there are 50 partitions of consumer offsets. Okay? So, it need to find out that, okay, whatever the group ID I have given, who like which partition is my group coordinator? Like, so first it will find out that, okay, hash of your group ID mod 50, so 23. So, partition, so it need to find out that, okay, the partition 23 will hold all the information related to my group. And it just need to find out that who is the group coordinator for this partition 23. Exactly same as the Kafka consumer part. So, it will send a request to any broker. Broker will goes to the controller. Controller will take out the metadata. Metadata with return will have that, okay, consumer offset partition zero leader is broker one. Partition two leader is broker three. Similarly, like three partition 23 broker is uh leader is broker three. So, it gets certain information. So, after that it will send the request to the broker three that, "Hey, I want to join the stream analytics group." Everything same. Now, here very something different happen than the consumer. Now, the group coordinator wait for all the members to join. Okay? So, group coordinator will wait for all the members to join. Let's say there are let's say 10 instance, 20 instance, whatever the instances. Now, what it will do is that they will run the streams partitioner. If you remember in the consumer, what happened was let's say you have multiple instance of consumer, consumer one, consumer two, consumer three. They all wanted to join let's say order-events. And order-events has let's say two three partition, partition zero, partition one, partition two. So, this partition will be assigned to one of the consumers. But, now in case of stream, I told you that the task is the working unit. Okay? So, what it does is it runs this stream partitioner. So, this discover topology, create sub topology, create task. Okay? It internally create repartition topic, change log topic, whatever the things required. Okay? And then distribute the task to the stream instances. Okay? So, now let's say it says that whatever the application you are saying that, "Hey, you have to handle task 0 {comma} 2." Means sub-topology 0 partition 2. Okay? Got it? This is one difference. So, it does lot of things that discover topology, sub-topology, task creation, and create change log, repartition, everything. Now, you got the task which you need to run. Okay? So, now it will check. Okay, I need Okay, so sub-topology 0 partition 2. So, it knows that sub from sub-topology 0, it knows that the sub-topology 0, its source is order-events. Okay? So, now it will say that, "Okay, for order-events, partition 2, till what offsets it is read properly?" So, it will just ask that, "Hey, fetch the last offset for the order-events partition 2." Like similarly like a consumer. Okay? So, it will say that, "Okay, till 100, it's all read. You have to proceed further." Same. Now, one thing another new is that you every task maintains a RocksDB. So, now since it's a new application, it need to restore that RocksDB. So, it will read its So, for this order-events, so this sub-topology. So, sub-topology 0 partition 2 it will read or recover the change RocksDB from the change log. Okay? So, let's you can say that sub topology let's say zero partition P1. So, it will know that the RocksDB the name is order-store because in the topology we have given the name. When we have defined the topology, we have given the name order-store So, order-store-change-log, which partition? P1 it has to read. order-store-change-log from partition P1, it will recover. Okay? So, it has partition two, so it will read partition two let's say. It will recover the RocksDB. Okay? Now, what it will do is it will invoke the leader and fetch the data. Because it is now has to fetch like order-events partition two data, right? So, it will invoke the broker, read the data one by one. Okay? So, now let's say it got the data. Now, it will process it. So, task has all the sub topology, right? So, it will process it. So, like this one. Now, all the tasks which has to do it will do. After that, it will commit the same like a consumer and continues to the step nine. So, the again fetch the next event process the task commit it continue again. Exactly same as consumer. If you have understood the consumer architecture, this is the same flow. Only difference is that the group coordinator, how the earlier partition was divided uh among the consumer instances, now task is divided among the stream instances. Okay? And it also has one more step where it will recover the RocksDB state from the changelog. After that, everything is same like it once it get the event the logic which has to be processed is within present in the task itself. So, every task has this sub-topology. It has to process that. These are steps. Clear? So, I would say that go through it once again. Because things get little complex in this one like understanding sub-topology, uh understanding this changelog. So, go through it one more time. And try to connect dots. Okay? Just see that like all we do is that we create topology. Okay? From the topology, internally happens everything. It creates sub-topology internally. Okay? It divide this topology into multiple sub-topologies internally. Got it? So, any doubt let me know. Because in the next step, I will just set do a setup of this stream. And once we are done with the setup, then we will do like go depth into the processors. Like what are different processors we have? Filter, group, count, and etc. Okay? But, I hope this stream architecture is clear because that is critical. Okay, guys. Thank you. Bye.
