=== Sub topology (824s - 2027s) ===

confusing part. Okay? And many times I see engineering miss this topic itself because it's not a bad easy to grasp. So, I'll show you. But this is where this line becomes &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; wrong. Like each task has complete topology. Now, let's see that. Sometimes we need repartition. In that case, one big topology is internally divided among multiple sub-topologies. So, to understand the topology, we have to understand repartition. What does repartition How repartition divide our topology into multiple sub-topologies? So, let's understand this. So, I am taking one use case. So, we have order event. Okay? So, order event has let's say key order ID and the value your order object. What we have to do is we need to find out the product-wise order count. Let's say product ID one, it has total 50 orders total. Product ID two, it has total 100 orders. This is our goal. Okay? And from the event, you can find out not directly because the key is order ID. Let's say one customer is C1, product ID is let's say P1. So, for this P1 this order is for this product, right? So, you can say that it will get counted for this. Okay? So, like this we have to find. This is our goal. So, So need to understand the problem if there is no repartition first. Like there is no concept of repartition itself. Let's understand what's the problem. So events are distributed across topic partitions. So for example, product P1 orders are distributed across two partition of topic order events. What does it mean? So now let's say in a Kafka cluster we have a topic order hyphen events which has two partition, partition zero, partition one. So partition zero will have certain events. Okay? Similarly, partition one also has certain events. So now let's say our goal is that product wise count. Product product ID, let's say product one. Let's say we need to count orders. So now here if you see this event product ID P1. So this order belongs to product ID P1, which is in present in partition P0. Similarly, here if you see there is one more event which is again for product ID P1. So this order is also for the same product. So partition zero partition zero has two orders for product one. Similarly partition one has product ID P1, so this order belongs to the product ID P1. So partition one has one order for product ID one. Okay? So currently this is our situation. Because in uh topic a particular topic the events can be distributed among partition. Correct? That's we already know that. Now in the Kafka stream I told you we have different tasks. Let's say task one, task two. So the number of partition we have, that number of tasks we will have. So we will have let's say our topology is this. Source, read from order event. So our topology first Our topology is a read from order-events. This is our source. After that our processors. Processor is like group by let's say group by product ID. Then you have to do count. And ultimately we have to put sink in output topic. That's our topology. Now let's say our each task hold this topology. Okay? So this each task hold this complete topology. Now what would happen? You know that each task handles one partition. So our source is order event. So task one order event it handle partition zero. Similarly task two for order event handles partition one. Okay? So they are both tasks are handling different partition. Now this task will see when it do group by key product ID, it will see that okay because it will read the partition zero. So when it will read partition zero, it will see that hey for P1 there are two orders. Similarly task two will see that hey for P1 there is only one order. Now which one is true? How to aggregate? That's the problem. Okay? So you got the problem? Now, let's understand repartition. What repartition How repartition solves it. So, this is our topology. Okay? So, now here if you see that the source is order event, the processor In the processor, let's say this is the one processing step which does repartition. Okay? And after that, again same group by key count and ultimately sink. Now, what would happen? See this, how the task is created. So, first it create topology, sub-topology. So, sub-topology zero. You have a source, yes source. Order hyphen events, so source is order hyphen event. Then the processor. So, in the processor it has let's say select key product ID, this one. Select key product ID. So, this is step is of repartition step. So, what we are trying to do is that in order events topic, we have multiple partition, partition zero, partition one. So, we have events here. We have certain events here for the same product ID. Same product ID. Now, what we are doing is whenever we are getting an event, we are saying that repartition based on product ID. So, what it does is when it get an event, particular event now, which has let's say product ID P1. What it will do is it will again put into a topic, certain repartition topic, which has again the same number of partition, P0 P1. So, this has let's say two partition, order event. So, the same number of partition it creates. Okay? So, it's a new This partition is created internally. We are not doing anything. We just created this topology. This is in our hand. We don't know about like what internally how it is internally creating sub topology and all. It internally does that. But, internal functionality I'm showing you. Okay? But, this topology is which we created. Here we haven't defined any sub topology and all. We just defined it steps. We just told that, "Hey, repartition is based on product ID." And after that next step, next step, like this. But, internally what it does is first it gives that, "Okay, source is okay." Then processor, "Hey, you want me to do repartition? Okay." So, what it will do repartition is that it will create a new topic. Which has the same number of partitions of the source one. Okay? So, P0 P1. Now, in the repartition, it will do based on this product ID. So, now here when our producer publish an order event, the key was order ID. Not the product ID, order ID. Okay? Now, here is during the repartition our key is now product ID. Okay? Value is the same order, whatever here it was. But, the key is changed. Now, it is product ID. Now, since key is same, all these events will goes to only one partition, either P0 or either P1. Okay? So, here if you see in the processor, select key product ID. So, this is a repartition step. And when a repartition step, the its sync is the repartition topic. Okay? So, it will ultimately create a repartition topic. And whatever the event is, it will just publish them again, but now with a key product ID. So, that all these events now goes to one of the partition only, not divide like earlier. Okay? So, this is sub-topology zero. Then, sub-topology one is like read from source is now this partition topic. Now, from this part repartition topic, it will read. And then do the following step, group by key, count, and the sync, whatever the sync where you wanted to put. So, you got it? Internally, it divides. Okay? So, whenever you want to do repartition, it will first create or insert it into the repartition topic, like whatever the event come. Okay? And based on the task which you have performed, whenever do you want to do repartition, it will just repartition based on your key which you have provided. So, it will go back again to the certain topic. And from there, you have to read it again and complete the step. Okay? So, the same example I have shown here. We just created topology based on the processor. If repartition requirement framework internally automatically create repartition topic and create sub-topologies. I told you in all we just work with topology. Sub-topology is an internal concept. That's why many times engineer miss it because we don't create topology. We We don't create sub topology. We just only create topology. Okay? Based on the our processing or based on a step, if that step is repartition step, internally it creates sub topology. So, see this example. I hope with that everything will get clear now. So, let's say order event. It has two partition, partition zero, partition one. I told you that when the producer has published into this, the key was order ID. Value was order. Okay? So, your order has process ID and all, but since key is order ID, partition zero has certain data. Partition one has certain data. Okay? Now, after repartition, so repartition now key become your product ID. P1. And then the same order. The key is now this. So, for the key is P1, order is this. 01 C1 P1. Similarly, the key is P1. When this event is get, it will just republish it. -03 C3 this one. So, all these events ultimately when the task what it will do is it will do repartition it. And during repartition what would happen is now because of the same key, they will all goes to only one partition of a repartition topic. So, that when you further read it, okay? You will have a task. Okay? You will have a task here on this also. Partition zero, partition one. So, you have two tasks here. Uh which looks at partition zero, task which looks at partition one of this repartition topic. So, only one task now will get all these events now. So, it will able to see properly clear. Uh process ID, let's say P-1, count is three. Okay? Earlier, it was two and one here. Now, with the repartition Got it? Now, let's comes to task again. Okay? Earlier, I told you that each task has earlier, I told you that each task has complete topology. Now, we have an understanding of sub topology also. So, I would just rephrase that each task has complete sub topology for a specific partition. So, just see this example till here. So, see this cluster and see this topology. Pause it here. Divide this topology into sub topology and after that see how many task it required. Okay? So, now let's say our Kafka cluster has only order events and this order events has two partition, P0 and P1. And this is my topology which I have created that source is like order event. And then this is the processor. So, in the processor, the first it is doing is repartition based on the product ID. Group by the key. Third is count, so multiple step. After that, sink. Sink to the topic product or order count. So, this is our output topic, you can say that. Now, we know that this this step is the repartition step. Re- partition step. So, we know that it will create multiple sub topologies. Can we create different sub topology? This is one sub sub topology. This is second sub topology. Source is order even. Okay. Processor select key by product ID. Re-partition happen at this step. So, it will sync into certain re-partition topic. Okay? So, now this will create a new topic into our Kafka cluster re-partition topic, which has the same number of partition which your source has. So, source has P0 P1, it will also have P0 P1. Okay? Now, sub topology one. It will read from this re-partition topic. It will read from this re-partition topic. Now, further step. Group by key, count. Group by key count and the sync product order count. So, there will be some other topic. It will sync it there. Okay? So, how many task will be created? So, this is also certain work we have to do. This is also certain work we have to do. So, for let's say for this sub topology. This sub topology has two partitions. Source is two partition. So, task one. Sub topology zero. Partition zero. Task two. Sub topology zero. Partition one. Okay? So, sub topology zero source is order events, right? So, it's has order event has two partition. So, sub topology zero means this is this has to be done in a particular task. But, partition zero. So, whatever the source is order even, it's partition zero. Similarly, like this. Okay, so 0 0 here, sub topology zero, partition zero. So source is order events, partition P0. And the whole topology, processor select key sync is repartition topic. So, this is one now sub topology, right? This. Okay? Now, second is task 0 1. Sub topology is zero, partition is one. So, order events, but partition is P1. Okay? The The rest of the sub topology, complete sub topology, select key, and it will publish into repartition topic. Okay? Now, let's comes to this sub sub topology. This source, repartition topic, also has now two partitions. So, means it need two tasks. So, task 1 0. One is like sub topology one, partition zero. So, its source is So, its source is repartition topic. So, repartition topic, partition P0. Repartition topic, partition P0. And a processor, rest all same. Okay? This all same. Similarly, task 1 1. Sub topology one, partition one. So, topic was repartition topic, it's partition P1, it will read. Rest all same. Group by key, count, ultimately sync. So, you got it? So, the now task, number of task is like depend upon your sub topology. So, for each sub topology it will check its source. So, this source topic, whatever the partition it has, that many task it will create. Okay, so this topology has order events. Order event has two partition. So, task one, task two for this one. Similarly, this sub-topology, its source repartition topic has two partition. So, for this also has task one, task two for this one, this sub-topology. So, task is created per sub-topology. Okay? It's clear now? Now, this four task will be distributed to our stream application instances. So, whatever the Spring Boot application which we will create for stream processing, these four tasks will be distributed among them. Let's say I'm creating a Spring Boot application with thread two. Mean two threads I'm creating. So, now this four task will get distributed among this two threads. So, thread one, thread two. So, this four tasks is distributed among this two threads. This four tasks distributed among this two threads.
