=== ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor (126s - 405s) ===

with like on this part schedule threadpull executor part. Now let's say that the first thing generally what we do is we create a threadpull exeutor. So in case of scheduleuler so see we are dealing with scheduleuler means something it's a background thread and it generally sleeps when task comes in a queue. task comes in a queue, the thread wakes up, pick the task from the queue, perform it and then sleeps again. Okay, for this specific scenario, scheduleuler scenario, we have one specialized threadpool exeutor which is scheduled thread pool executor. Okay. So here in this one first the step what we are doing is we are creating an object of it and with the parameter three what does this three means in the pool So it's a core pool size. If you remember from the thread pool and thread pool executor the term you might be familiar with core pool size that is nothing but like okay in a pool how many worker threads are present which take care of a particular queue in which the task will arrive. Okay. The second generally what we used to do is like the creating the task which we have to run. So this is just a runnable task and this is just a lambda expression. Okay, where I have specified the task which has to be performed nothing much. The third is we need to submit the task. Okay, so we need to submit the task into the queue. How we submit? So the scheduleuler thread pool executor dot we are using its object dot schedule the task the task which we have to run. So we have created the task and at what time. So that's what actually additional feature of schedule threadpool executor. We can tell the time the task need to run. In a normal thread pool executor this feature is not available. You can say that okay when we put a task into the queue if thread is available it will pick the task. But we have a scenario like we have to run a task at a specific time. Then it is like scheduled threadful executor we have to use. Okay. So executor dot schedule I am using a schedule method the task which I need to run and also I add the time at what time this task need to get scheduled. Okay. So what happen is this task is get added to the queue. Okay. And the worker thread which we have created the pool of worker thread one of the thread wakes up pick the task on this specific time. Okay, very important. On a specific time when the time has come for this task to run only that time it will take out from the queue perform perform the task and then sleeps again. So this is you can say that very very high level but now we have to go one level deep. So, so before we proceed further into the internals like what happens when we write this command, what happens when we do dot schedule, what happen internally. I will also cover that apart from dot schedule like what are the other methods and what their mean is because see we have already covered those into this Java schedule threadpull executor but I will also cover here because you can say that these are the fundamental if we know how this methods work schedule at fixed rate schedule with fixed delay okay then it will help us to understand the internal better. Okay. So let's cover those quickly. The first method which schedule
