=== Leader - Follower Optimization (2960s - 3500s) ===

follower optimization comes into the picture. So very basic idea of leader follower is it's very very simple like many times it get complicated. I'm not sure like but it's very simple. It's only agenda is only agenda is only one thread should go into time waiting. All others should just go waiting state indefinitely. OS should maintain the timer only for one thread in case of delete Q. Okay. And it's all managed through one variable itself leader variable. Now you will understand with this flow example. So step one again I am following the same step. Okay. So you can skip step one, step two. You can directly jump to step three. But I'm going little slow because this is fundamental this asked a lot and it's just out of curiosity like it should be understood properly. So I'm going little slow. Please bear with me or you can uh increase the speed. Step one no change. So you know that step one what is the case? Delayed Q was empty and all workers are in weight state and currently now we have a leader object which is in null currently. Step two again no change. In step two, first task arrive in the delayed queue. And when the first task arrive, you know that what it do? It will also notify one thread. Okay? Only for the first time the task comes into the delayed queue. Okay? Or not only the first time, only when there is one task, only when there is one task in the delayed queue, then only it notify because when there is no task, all might be in waiting state. So when the first time task come it need to invoke one. Okay. So it invoke one thread which are in waiting state. Now let's say worker one goes into the runnable state. Leader is still null. No change how we used to do in the previous. Step three. Step three worker one look at the head of the delayed queue. Two possibility. Possibility one no change. Okay. Now let's say current time is 2011. But in the delayed queue the task need to be run at 2. Yeah. Uh it's already expired. It need to get executed. It will take it out and start processing. And since currently there is no task present into the queue. So it will not uh awake. If there is more task present it will invoke it another. Okay. So there is no change into the possibility one scenario. Okay. So this is the possibility one scenario we have already seen at this point of it some time leader is null. Okay. So no change at all. Now possibility two. This is where the leader variable comes [snorts] into the work because this is the time when thread goes into time weight state. Okay. So now understand this. So now let's say current time is less than task one runtime. So we compute a delay that okay for let's say 5 seconds or 5 minutes still we need to wait. So now what it does it it will check if leader variable is not null means there is already some leader just go into the weight state because here what we are building is only leader should goes into timed weight state. All those who are not leader should goes into weight state. Okay. So we have one condition if leader variable is not null goes into the weight state because leader might be goes into the time weight. Else if there is no leader make yourself leader and goes into the time weight state and once you once your timer is up make leader equals to null again. So see all leader variable is just to make sure that only one thread goes into time wait state. Okay. And all other thread if they need to wait goes into wait indefinitely one not the timer one. So here if you see this one all are in runnable state. I am just reusing the same example use case where we have the problem. All are runnable. Leader is still null and we have this task present into the delayed work. Now all will compete. Okay. And now let's say that current time is three. So thread one let's say acquire the log first. Thread one will go checks the runtime is not yet expired. Compute the delay. Let's say delay is 1 minute. Now it will check leader is null. Yes, leader is null. So what it will do is it make itself leader. Leader equals to thread dot current thread. So now what's the leader is leader is now worker one. And then it goes into the timed waiting state. Okay. So it just set the leader that hey I am the leader. I am going the time working state. If after me if anybody comes they don't have to go into the time waiting state. So if you see the code this is the code like if delay is not over if delay is not over what it does is leader not equals to null currently we have a scenario where leader was null. So when leader is null the thread make itself leader. Okay so here leader equals to this thread. So it make itself leader and then goes into the timed waiting state. Okay. So now we have this scenario. Task is still present. Worker one goes into the time waiting state. Leader is now worker one. Now it when it goes into the time waiting state, it will release the lock. Now the lock is taken by another thread. Let's say thread two acquired the lock. Checks the runtime it's four. Current time is three. Delay is not yet over. So it delay it computes. I need to wait 1 minute. Okay. After that it check leader not equals to null. Yes, currently leader is our worker one. So what it will do is it will directly goes into weight state. That's our code is if leader not equal goes into weight state not for a specific time goes into indefinitely. Okay. So it goes into weight state. This part leader not equal this. Similarly while goes into the waiting it will release the log. Now the thread three comes again check the head. Uh compute the delay. If delay is not yet over still 1 minute left it need to wait. So it will check leader is null. No leader is already present. So it goes into the wait state also. Okay. So now what would happen after 4 p.m. After four, after 1 minute, after 1 minute the timer is over, OS thread will make this thread up. It wakes up. So at four, worker thread one wakes up. After 1 minute delay, this get wake up. And again it check the Q. Now current time is four. This is four. So it's delay is delay is greater uh delay is less than equals to zero. Right? Delay is less than equals to Z. True. Now it will finish the pole. Okay. So what that's what it does. But here if you see before so here we see that at this point of time this worker one goes into time weight state. Okay. So when it wake up so it will process it from here itself. So what it does is if leader equals to equals to thread a if I am the leader make leader null. Okay. So it again make it null and the process repeats. Process repeats. So now we are in the same state. Leader is null. Worker one is runnable. Okay. And now it will look back at the que. Now our delay time is less than equals to zero. It will pick it up. It goes into running state. Okay. for this task one. If there are more tasks present in the finally block leader is null. Yes, leader is null. It will make and uh there is some data present into the queue. Yes, it will invoke another task, another thread.
