=== Use case discussion, why its not Optimized (2551s - 2960s) ===

Clear? Now you might ask, hey why I mentioned it's not optimized? It's all look optimized. So all well and good. Okay. I I am able to understand how the task is inserted into the delayed queue. how the threads wd up only one thread wked up and if the uh since it's a mean hip the head is store the task which need to be run immediately and uh the thread picks up the task if the time is not over it goes into time weight state and when the timer is completed it wakes up now and pick the task so all well and good where is it is not optimized See this below use case let's say current time is two and this is our delay Q task one two task 2 2 task 3 2 p.m. and task four let's say four thread one okay so currently thread one is in runnable state let's say this is our current scenario okay the same scenario which we have covered right it was in runnable state and we have a task present here so what would happen thread one runnable state checks the head of the que hey task one is ready to be picked Yes, current time is two, task one is two. So what it will do is it will remove the task one and before it going to process it, it also invoke one more waiting thread to look at the cube. I told you already that before it so this is the take. So there is before it pull before it take out the task from the queue it also check in the finally block if the head is not empty invoke one more okay so what it will do task one is now handled by thread one okay and it also invoked another thread which is in waiting and thread one goes into the waiting state or running state it is performing task one. Thread two now goes into the runnable state. Okay. Now thread two goes into the runnable state. Why? Because thread one invokes randomly. Now let's say that randomly thread two got picked up. Now it will again check the head of the queue. Task two is ready to be picked. Yes, the current time is two and this is two. So it will remove the task two and before it going to process it the code is same. It will invoke one more thread which is in waiting state because the que is not empty. Okay. So thread two goes into the running state but it will invoke one randomly one more thread which is in waiting. So now thread two got waked up in runnable state. Thread two is in running state. It is performing task two. Okay. So task two is also removed. Now thread three check the head of the queue. Task three is ready to be picked. Yes, two. Current time is also two. So it remove the task three. And before it going to process it, it also tried to invoke one more waiting thread to look at the queue. But since there are no more thread in the queue, they are all busy. So assume we have only three threads, three worker thread into the pool. So currently all three threads are in running state processing task one, task two and task three. Okay. And in the queue we have only now left is task four. So this is our current state. Now in the queue we have task four which need to be done at 4. Current time is 2 p.m. let's say. And all the workers are running. Worker one running task one. Worker two running task uh two. Worker three running task three. Now at three all three workers thread finished their task. Finished finish. Now once they finish they again goes back to runnable state. Okay. So it goes back to runnable. Runnable runnable. Now all three will complete this delayed que for the task because it's just a for loop right all three tasks are running parallelly. It's a for loop. So they will compete. So here if you look at the code of the take so they all compete for this uh delayed queue and they will try to take a lock. Okay, they will try to take a lock. Whichever takes a lock first will pick the task from the queue. Now all three compete for the task. Now let's say that thread one acquired the lock first. Okay, thread one or worker one. Worker thread one acquired the lock first. What would happen now? You know the flow. What it will do is it will check only two possibility. Either time expired. So current time is three. We have said that current time is three. Now so either time is expired, not expired. So in this case it is not expired. So current is three but it need to be executed at four. So what it will do is it will compute the delay delay time 4 - 3 1 let's say it's a minute all we are doing in minute let's say 1 minute it will go into timed weight state it will go into time weight state for 1 minute now once it goes into a timed weight state so it will also release the lock also now once it release the lock the second thread acquire the lock again do the same thing again currently it's three it's four it also goes into the time weight. Similarly, now after it before it thread two goes into the time weight, it will release the lock. Thread three will take it and the same thing this will also go into the time weight. So now here if you see all three goes into the time weight state. Now OS has to keep a timer for all these three. Okay. So why unnecessarily all three goes into the time waiting? The the more optimized solution is that only one thread only one thread should goes into the timed weight state other two threads should goes into weight state indefinitely one. We have already seen that flow. Okay. So that's our expectation. But because of this use case all three goes into the time waiting state. So that's where our optimized flow comes into the picture. Leader follower pattern or leader
