=== Internal functionality of Scheduler (Not Optimized) (1308s - 2551s) ===

when we perform this command. So when we did scheduleuler threadpull executor we create its object and pass this parameter three. So what ultimately we are doing is we are create passing this as a core pool size and what it does is it created a thread pool with three worker thread. Okay. And since we are using scheduled thread pool executor the queue which it uses delayed work q. Delayed workq. Okay. You can also say delayed Q also. So it internally follows min heap sorted by time and it this Q is unbounded grow as needed and limited by available heap memory. Okay. So when you perform the first like new schedule thread pool executor 3 this all thing happen. So we have created a delayed work q which is of unbounded size which keep on grow and get filled and it's a min heap. So when the task come the task should have a time and based on the time it is sorted internally. So it's a min heap. So the task which need to be run immediately is on the head of the queue. You can say that and also it creates a pool with the worker number which you have specified into this parameter. Okay. Now after that what we used to do we used to create a task. Let's say this is our task nothing. And the third one which is important is schedule it. So nowuling it. executor dot schedule task this one. So we need to schedule this task after this much time. So what it does? So internally first thing it will create it schedule task. So from this task it will create one you can say that schedule future task and this has uh this task plus this time unit information 5 seconds. Okay. So that is one task you can say that that is one schedule task which ultimately goes into the queue. So now when you put dot schedule what it does is it also insert it into the delayed work also. Okay. So it also insert the task for first it create a schedule future task object and uh you can say that wrap it up this task plus this time information and that object is now inserted into the delayed work. So now let's go one level deep again how the flow happens like when you insert into the delayed cube what exactly happens. So the first is not optimized flow. Here also it's a very important interview question. One is nonoptimized flow. Another is optimized which is a leader follower flow. Okay, this is where many interviewer uh start with this and then they ask the follow-up to this leader follower question. But let's see the flow what happened. So at step one delayed work q is empty and all the worker threads are in weight state. So if you remember from the thread pool executor flow in Java uh each thread has an state. Okay. So initially when they created they are created let's say in runnable state runnable state so it would be runnable runnable runnable but since delayed workq is empty what they do is they goes into the weight state so this is the framework code so now here if you see the framework code let me zoom it a bit each thread so see this is an infinite loop each thread And let me change it to green so that would be visible. Okay. So each thread continuously loop. Okay. And they check the head of the delayed queue. So if there is no task present they goes into the weight state indefinitely until they are not get woke up by somebody else. So they are in weight state. So this is our step one. So delayed Q is empty and all worker threads are in weight state. So all worker thread checking the Q head currently it is null and they are waiting. Okay. So now they goes into the wait state. Somebody has to now wake them up. Step two the first tasks arrive in the delayed queue. And how the first tasks arrive in the delayed queue? We have like executor dot schedule or schedule at fixed rate or schedule at with fixed delay. So we have that command right this one it also inserted into this delayed workq. So when the first task arrive in the delayed queue what exactly happened? It invokes only one worker thread only one worker thread which are in waiting state. It will not invoke all three. It will not do notify all. No, it will just invoke one thread which is in waiting. Okay. When the task comes into the delayed work, it invoke only one. So here this is the code example here if you see offer. So internally when we do dot schedule it might be calling this method of the delayed work q offer and the task which we have to insert. So here if you see what it do it first if the Q length has been full if there is no space in the queue it will grow it increase the size Q by 50% if it is full and after that it will insert it and do heify it will heify because since I told you the delayed cues we are following min heap min heap based on the time so it will heify and after that What it does is if Q head equals to equals to this the object the task which is coming means this is the first task which is coming. So earlier if the Q is empty all threads thread one thread two thread three are in weight wait. So if this is the first task if the head is this is the task means all thread might be in waiting state because this is the first thread coming first task coming so that's why it is doing signal signal is equivalent to you can say that notify which only randomly invokes one thread which is in waiting state. It do notify all it randomly pick one thread and notify it invoke it. Okay. So this is the step two which happens. Now step three. In the step three, now we have a worker thread which got now in runnable state. We have a task in the delayed que. What it do is it check the queue again because I told you right it continuously in the for loop and checking the head of the que and why we need to check the head of the queue because it's a min heap and min heap you know that at the head stores the let's say if you are following a minimum heap on time at head we have the time which going to be come immediately or already has come you can say that so the task which need to be run immediately that would be at the head of the queue. Okay. So now this worker will look at the head of the queue. Worker one check the head of the head task. So now we have two possibility. What is the two possibility? Possibility one the current time greater than equals to task one runtime. Okay. So means this time is already elapsed. So current time is let's say 210 and the task which is present here in the queue is 2. So definitely it need to be picked if time is already elapsed. So what it will do is it will take out the task from the que and start working on it. Okay. The similar that if the current time is 2011 and in the Q we have two. So yes time is already elapsed for this task. So this worker start working on this task one and state is now running. Earlier it was runnable. Now it is working on task one. It status is now running. What is the possibility two? So this is the possibility one. Possibility two is that so currently is let's say 155 but this task needs to be executed at 2. So time has not yet come. So possibility two is that current time is less than task one runtime. So we need to compute the delay. So it will compute delay. How much time I need to wait? So task one runtime 2 minus what is the current time? Let's say 25. So five either seconds or minute whatever would be. So it has to wait this much time. Let's say 5 seconds or 5 minutes whatever. So difference is like what's the time the task need to run what's the current time whatever the difference this much time this thread need to wait now how this should wait one is like let's say busy wait it will keep on checking the clock hey is it now ready is it now ready is it now ready is it now ready and as soon as it ready take it out that that is like you are consuming many CPU CPU cycles it keep on checking the queue. Are you ready now? Are you ready now? Are you ready now? Okay. So you are consuming CPU cycles. Okay. So we are saying that we don't do busy wait. So this whatever the 5 minutes or 5 seconds this thread has to wait. We don't have to busy wait. We don't have to keep on continuously looking and we don't have to consume the CPU cycle. So what it do is it timed weight. Time wait means JVM pass the thread. Okay. And it will this thread let's say thread one need to wait for 5 second. So it will goes into timed wait state. So see there are two type of state. One is wait state means threads are in waiting indefinitely like what our other threads are in. Until and unless somebody don't invoke it, they are waiting in wait state indefinitely. They do not consume any CPU cycles. Okay, they are not consuming any resource. They are just in the wait state. Somebody has to wake them up indefinitely. They would be in wait state. But here here it goes to the timed wait state. Time wait state means when we are saying 5 seconds. So it will go into the wait state only for 5 seconds. As soon as 5 seconds are finished, it wakes up. Now you might be asking that hey how it is maintaining the timer that it internally make use of OS level timer. Okay. So when the timer expires OS wakes the thread and control returns to the JVM. Okay. So OS keeps the timer and in the OS uh there are certain functionality if you read it they have certain thread which keep every millisecond they check any thread need to be wake up any thread need to be wake up okay so OS has those functionality OS has uh OS level timers are present which itself they have a thread which keep on checking every millisecond that is there any thread which I need to wake up or not okay so they keep the timer and when the timer of this time weight threads which are time weight with this much time when that timer is over OS thread wake them up and return control return back to JVM so understand with this let's say current time is 1:55 p.m. Delay time is 2 p.m. So 5 minute it has to wait. Okay. So this worker thread will not continuously look at this. Hey time is it is time come time come or not. What it goes into time wait for 5 minutes. Now OS will keep the timer. Okay. And OS will wake it up after 5 minutes are over. And once it is over what it will do is it will then check the queue back again. It will start again the same process. So here if you see this is the for loop where each thread continuously keep on iterating iterating iterating. Currently our thread two and thread three are in the weight state here. Now thread one here it perform this for loop. Yes. Now it will check the head of the cube. Is it null? No. It goes here. Compute the delay. So two possibility. First possibility delay is finished less than equals to zero. So if delay is over like it can be executed immediately. So it finish the poll. So what it will do is poll is it take out from the queue and start executing it. And this is the second possibility. If the delay is still greater than zero means there is still some time left before it task can get executed. So what it does is it goes into the weight state. Now here if you see it's not going await it's going await nanos and the time. So it going into the timed weight state for a specific time only whatever the delay we have calculated okay 5 minutes is still pending. So that much time it will go into the weight state. Okay, don't worry about this leader and all. We will put that into the optimized flow. What does that mean? But here we know that two possibilities are clear. What happen in this one if the timer is not completed? Now after the time weight state is over, I told you that worker one threads wake up again here. It will wake up from here again and what it will do? It will again start this for loop. Again this for loop will start. It will check the queue again. It will check the head of the queue again. Do we have a task? Yes, we have a task. Okay, it will compute the delay. Now the delay is over because it has already sleep for that much time. Now what it will do is delay is less than equals to this. It will finish it. Okay, it will take out the task from the queue and per start working on it. Now one question might have comes to our mind when the task one which is there in the delayed queue is got picked by the worker one okay which was uh like in the wake state okay which was wake up now it is running who is looking into the delayed work what if there are more task come okay what if or you can say that what if apart from task one there is also task true. Okay. from the previous offer flow like when the task comes into the queue where it was uh this one offer in the offer flow when it invoked the one thread when when there is only one task into the delayed queue because all might be into the uh all threads might be into wait state. So the first task come then only it notify but if there are more task it do not notify. So the question is my question is let's say we have task one task two task three we have more than one task okay and this was the this was earlier uh await waiting timed timed waiting for 5 minutes after this 5 minutes are over this thread come into runnable state in the runnable state. It checked the queue again. Now the time is over for this task. So it picked this task. It removed this task and start processing it. Now it's uh state is in running. Now who will look this delayed work q? Who will look this delayed workq? because during the offer it only invoke one thread when when only one task is present into the queue. Okay. But now since there are more than one thread, it will not call notify or signal. Now who will look? These threads are in wait and we have more task. What would happen? So here if you see there is one finally block. So when the thread goes to take out the task from the Q delayed Q to start working on it, it will check into the finally block before returning. It will in the finally block will get execute. If Q is not null, it has some data present invoke one more thread which is in waiting. Okay. So you can say that if I clean it a bit. Uh but here it is. Uh here just a sec. Let me clean it a bit. Huh? So now when this worker goes into the running state performing some task if there is more task into the queue it invokes one more worker let's say worker three or randomly it goes into runnable state okay so that question might also comes up so this is just about explain now one thread which was awake is now going to process the task task. But what if the but if it process the task then no one will be looking at the delay Q and if there is more task in the delay queue it will invoke notify one more thread which is in waiting state that's what so let's say task two is already present task one is picked task two is also present so in the finally block uh head is not null it will invoke one more thread which is in waiting Okay. And the process keeps going on. I told you this is an infinite loop and the process keeps going on and on and on.
