=== Fixed Rate Scheduler in ScheduleThreadPoolExecutor (511s - 1106s) ===

So parameters are runnable which is nothing but a task initial delay. So see scheduled at fixed rate means it repeated many times. Okay. So initial delay means the first the first task when it should be picked. So after that uh so initial delay so initial delay should be there after that only first task should be picked. Okay after that what should be the delay gap between each repetition. So that's what we say period time unit. So let's understand with an example. So schedule at fixed rate says that run the task repeatedly at a fixed rate. Example is let's say you are giving you are performing this operation executor dot schedule at fixed rate the task which you want to run initial delay you put two and after that the period you have put four and the time unit is second 4 secondond gap after that you want it. So now let's say this is the timeline and at this point of time we have submitted the task. Now what happen is what we have given initial delay is 2 seconds. So it will wait 2 seconds 1 2. So the first time it will picked after the initial delay. So the the task get picked up at 2 seconds your task is started. Okay. Okay. Now let's say task is finished. What is the next time? because it has to be the same task need to be put into the queue. Okay. So let me also cover one more thing. Let's say you have put a task. Okay. And we are working on this fixed rate. So it has to be repeated multiple times. So now let's say thread one. Thread one pick this task to run. This is the task which thread one is picked. Okay. At 2 second. Let's say at this point of time it picked 2 second. Now after this task is executed successfully since we are following schedule at fixed rate means it has to be repeated again after this after this much gap after this much delay. Okay. So the same task the same task see object that's why I'm uh focusing here is the same task object is same okay so the same object with new execution time is again put back into the que okay and I will tell you what Q is there when we go internally like howululing works. But here why I stopped there and focus is that see for each task you have only one object. Okay. So when the task successfully computed then only it would be if if it need to be repeat again only after its execution it has to be put again with new execution time back into the queue. Okay. So now come this come to this example again. So initial delay was 2 seconds. So this is the time when the task was submitted. Okay. So this is the time when it is submitted. Wait for 2 seconds. Task got picked up. Now let's say that uh what is the next execution time you need to compute. So now task is finished. We need to compute the next execution time because so that we have to put back into the queue. So here at fixed rate the formula is that previous start time plus delay. What is the previous start time? Previous start time is 2 seconds. So 2 plus what is the delay? We have given 4 second. So next execution time is six. So this task is put back again into the queue with the execution. Next execution time is 6 second. On the 6th second this should get executed. Now when the 6th second arrive some thread would pick it up. Task started and when task get finished since we are following fixed rate we need to put it back again into the queue. And for that we need to compute the new execution time. And to compute the new execution time what is the formula for fixed rate? Previous Start time plus delay. What is the previous start time here? The previous start time here was 6 second. It was started, right? 6 plus the delay we have provided is 4 second. Now the next run. So we have put back this task again into the queue with the execution time as 10 second. So at 10 second some thread will pick it up. So at 10 second some thread will pick it up and after it finish the task now can you tell it need to compute the next execution time again. So previous runtime previous runtime was 10. The delay is we have provided is four. So it's a 14. So now the next run would be like on the 14 second and so on. Keep on doing keep on doing keep on doing. Now here interview can ask you one critical question. What if task takes too much time? What if the task which you have submitted here at picked at this point 2 second? What if it is still running? What happened to this? At 6 it should get picked up. At 10 it should get picked up. Okay. So generally most engineer what uh in interview they get confused that they say that it might run in parallel. Okay this is executed at 2 seconds. So they will compute the next delay previous runtime two. The delay time we have said is four. So at six also it will get executed. No, that's why I previously told you we have only one task object and when this task object is completed finished the same task object put back into the queue with new execution time. Okay. So there is no way the same task can run parallel because we have only one task object itself and the same task object we put into the queue after completion. So what our answer is even if task takes too much time it will always run in sequential manner. Why? Because same task object is recued. Let's understand this with an example. So again the same example I'm picking schedule at fixed rate the task which I want to submit two which is an initial delay after that what would be the subsequent delay I wanted so initial delay is 2 seconds so at two let's say started from zero at two the task started so first task started at two now let's say at 12 second this task got finished at 12 seconds this task get finished. So now we need to compute. So I told you after after the task is finished we compute a new execution time. Okay. So at 12 secondond task is finished now we are going to compute the new execution time. So how we compute in the schedule at fixed rate scenario. So what it will do formula is previous start time plus fixed delay time. Previous start time was 2. 2 + delay is 4 second. So 6 second. So next execution I is 6. But see we are already at 12. So 6 second is past. So again compute the new. So 6 second is less than current 12 seconds. So this is like we need to find a new time. This is a history. So 6 second the next execution time we compute is like 6 second + 4. What should be the next? It generally it should be 10 second. It should run. Must 10 second is also passed. We are currently at 12 second. So it will try to compute the next. So previous execution would should be 10 + 4 delay 14 second. So now 14 second is future current is 12 second. So the next run would happen on port 10. So it will put the task. So it will put the task back into the queue with the execution time is 14 second. Okay. So the task again will run on 14 second. So this is clear. scheduled at fixed rate.
