=== Fixed Delay Scheduler in ScheduleThreadPoolExecutor (1106s - 1308s) ===

Now we have schedule with fixed delay. Okay, there is a very minor difference. Okay, so here also we run the task repeatedly but with fixed delay. Fixed delay very simple to understand in this case the understand this with an example. schedule with fixed delay the task which we want to schedule initial delay and after that how much delay we wanted within a uh within two run. So initial delay is 2 seconds. So if you see the timeline let's say at zero uh our task is submitted. So at two the task should get started. Okay. So at 2 seconds because of initial delay. So this much time it waited and after that task started. Now here now now let's say that task is finished at 12 seconds. Task is finished at 12 seconds. The new runtime is computed here in schedule with fixed delay is previous finish time plus delay. That's the only difference. Earlier in the fixed uh this one fixed rate, the formula is previous start time plus delay. Here is previous finish time plus delay. So when it is finished on 12 plus what is the delay? 4 second. So next run would be 16 second. Okay. So at 16 second the next run would get started because first run started on 2cond but task finished on 12 second. Okay. So the next execution time it will compute 12 second + 4 when the time is when the task is finished. After that it will add up the delay. Okay. So 16 second is the time. Then let's say it is finished on 18 second. So we need to find the next run. Then only we have to put back into the queue. So when it is finished 18 + 4 22 second. So the task is put back into the queue with this new execution time 80 uh 22 seconds. So 22 seconds task started and so on. So you got the difference in the fixed delay when the task started and when the task finished. So using this time when it is finished we add a delay and get a new execution time and then it again put back to the queue and in the fixed rate when the task was started in that we put a delay if it is future if it is future then only we put back into the queue. You can say that okay future in the sense I would say that uh greater than equals to now. So even though it is equals to then also it will uh we can put it into the queue because it can be executed. Okay but this is clear right. So now with that being said let's see what happened
