=== Adding Microservice and demo (1929s - 2318s) ===

microservices. So this git repo where all the properties are present that is done config server is done which is able to fetch the file. Now all we have to write is our individual independent microservices. Now let's say I'm creating order microser. So this is order service. You can create it. Now remember that this is your client. This is your config server. Now this is your config client. So you have to add this dependency config client dependency. It will bring this springy cloudy starter config. So this is act as your config client. Now, okay. So, here if you see on startup, this app will contact a config server during application startup. When you start an order service at that point of time, it contact the configuration server. The configuration server you know that it is enabled with this at the rate enable config server and fetch its configuration. it automatically load those properties into the app environment as if they were local application.properties. So for this I I will tell you we will come with an example for this one. So we'll this line will commit. So now let's say that you have downloaded this created this project you have this dependency double sure that you have this dependency added. Now I have created uh its application.properties properties also. So inside this application.property this one I have provided the name order service remember that this is the name only we are using into our centralized config repo for order service right order service. So whatever the name you would give you have to use the same name in the uh git repository where you are maintaining the property files. The second configuration I am adding it spring.config.imp import this is the config server config server URL okay host and port number you can use ureka server okay if you don't want to hardcode it generally we never hardcode it okay so you can integrate with ureka server we have already seen uh how to integrate with ureka server we have already covered that so here I have directly hardcoded the URL but I would highly recommend that watch out the Ureka server uh video where we have uh integrated we dynamically fetching the host and the port number. Okay. But before that I have put this optional config server. What does it mean? I am telling that hey order service even if config server is down you don't have to fail you don't your application should be able to start up okay and your source of truth would be your local application.properties properties. Okay. So your source of truth would be your Dave, your QA, your prod. Okay. So don't rely. So this is just an optional. If you if you see that config server is down or unreachable, your application startup should not fail. Okay. But if you skip this and your config server this one your config server is not up or down unreachable your order service will not even start itself. Okay. So that's why I have put it optional. Then I have put the profile spring.profiles.active Dave. Okay. For now I have for testing purpose I have kept it Dave that hey yes I am working in the development environment. So I want to load this Dave properties and if you see the profile video also you can see that there is also a way to dynamic uh while starting the application you can provide whether which profile you want to work. So that is one way. Another way is that in the application.properties you can override like which environment you are working at. Okay. So both is correct. Now let's say you are working in the development environment. You just change that active profile let's say Dave. Okay. And yes you have put the configurate custom message hello from local default. Similarly for the Dave this is the message hello from local Dave and then you have QA hello from local QA. So I have defined this property file also. Okay. So now you know the order. Now till this point you are clear that first this is the precedence. If the configuration is missing here in the global default also then ultimately it fall back to this local property files. Okay let's say you are looking for Dave right? So it will first give precedence to application Dave. If it is missing then it will goes to this local application.properties which is default for Dave qa. Okay, then you can add the order controller. Simple in the order controller you have let's say add the rate value you are looking for custom dot message okay and just very simply using this here into this and you can try hitting it I am just hitting this endpoint slash order/fetch okay this is your order application it is running on 80080 now if you see that from where it fetch Fetch order and message. Hello from order dev. Fetch order and message. Hello from order dev. So where it might have come from local. No it has come from this one. The first one. Hello from order dev.
