=== Lets first understand Problems (21s - 276s) ===

that you will get to know better understanding that why why everyone is following the centralized configuration approach. Okay, the first problem is rebuild and redeploying. Assume that this is your application order application and this is the application.properties where you are maintaining your configuration. Now say that you have to update this configuration. What you have to do? You have to edit the application.properties file. Then after that you have to rebuild your jar and then redeploy the surface. Okay. So just one configuration update you have to rebuild and redeploy and with that itself you can know that it's a big pain. Okay. Now the problem too is that inconsistent config ac across services many time what happen is there have similar configuration across multiple microservices like this. Let's say uh I have a very big order microservices which I have further divided into two smaller microservices. One is pre-order and another is post order application. So both are different microservices but both helps in fulfilling the order itself pre-order and post order. So definitely that the DB which they are pointing to be the same DB. Okay. And this is just a one configuration. There can be many configuration which are common across multiple microservices. So this is just one example. So whenever you are making any update or adding a new property file, you have to make sure that it is consistent across all the microservices. Okay. So that is another challenge. Okay. Now let's say that you change the DB. You have made the change to order DB to something else and you made only changes in the pre-order. you forgot to make change into the post order application then it's uh become inconsistent configuration across different applications. The third problem is no runtime update. This is very important. Now let's say that your application is already running in live and you need to change certain configuration. Okay. Then how your application which is running in live can see those configuration changes. Is it possible? Currently no. Because application.property file is loaded only once at a startup. When your application is getting you are starting your application let's say order application only that time it read application.property file. Okay. After that if you make any changes into this one there is no way that runtime itself while this application is running it observe the changes okay this has been updated there is no way okay so you have to stop it okay you have to rebuild it and then you have to deploy it again currently this is the way okay if you have application.properties properties at with the particular microser. What is the problem for time consuming roll back? I told you that if any configuration change you make you have to let's say raise the PR get it merged then you have to build the service again and then you have to redeploy everything has to be done and if any issue comes you have to follow the complete process again which is a time-conuming process okay so that's what I have mentioned it here you have to manually add it you have to rebuild You have to redeploy. If multiple service are impacted, you need to fix all. Like in this example, let's say if DB URL has you have done misconfiguration, then you have to do the same process for this pre-order application. You have to do the same process for post- orderer application. Okay. So the roll back is time consuming. So what's the solution for that?
