=== Testing Configuration Server and Central Config Repo Setup (1599s - 1929s) ===

label. So let's test till this point. So I have updated the central config repo with the property files. So this is the central config repo which has just plain property files. Okay, just see this for global I have added this application.properties Dave hyphen prod QA and application.properties properties I have put this is the configuration custom dot message hello from global default so this is global and this is default like for all QA prod profiles similarly for application hyphen dev I just put hello from global dev since application.properties properties right it's a global but hyphen div it's like global div similarly for prod you will see that I have hello from global prod and for qa hello from global qa now inside the order service I have this order hyphen service - qa and this one so here I have just put hello from order default the same configuration custom dot message same but the message is hello from order default. So this is the default for this order service for QA for prod for Dave but only for order service. So hello from order default. So for this one I have just put a message hello from order Dave. For this one hello from order hello from order QA. So likewise for with one configuration I have filled this property files and so my repo is ready and I have pushed it into the main. Okay. And I started the configuration server with the I have done everything and I have put put this annotation also and started the application for this configuration. Now once you start this configuration and once you have added this annotation I told you that it act as a config server it expose certain endpoints like this okay application /profile/ label so now I am just hitting that one localhost 8888. So at this this is the port number which I'm using for config. So here if you go above I'm using 8888 for this config server. Okay. So this is the config server which we are creating right. So it is running on 8888. So now let's see that. So first is application. Application. So I put the application name order service. What is the profile? I'm looking for div and which label main. So if you don't even provide label right it will by default look for main. But if you specifically provide a main then it will use this like from which which branch you specifically looking for. If you don't give it okay if you don't give it it will look at your application.properties properties for config server and if you have defined there whatever the branch name you are looking for default hyphen label right it will use that branch if you haven't defined that itself it will use main okay otherwise you can use uh directly provide into this also now here if you see what is the order you are expecting without even looking this what is the order you are expecting okay just write down in your copy what is the order so now here I am hitting order - service Dave. So it will look for first order - service - Dave. If configuration is missing, it will look for application - Dave. Then it will look for order service.properties and last it will look for application.properties. So now if you see the response, it will give me an array. So this array act as a precedence. So first first precedence is hello from order dev. Hello from order dev. So it is coming from order service div.tproperties. The second in the array is hello from global dev. It is coming from application div. Then the third in the order is hello from order default. It is coming from order service.properties. And the last in the order is hello from global default which is application.properties. Till this point we haven't added our uh order application. Okay. So if it is missing there also then it fall back to ultimately local. That is the last that's why the local has the last precedence. If configuration is missing here itself then it fall back to the local. So till here we have done means our configuration server is also set up and endpoint is working fine. If we hit the endpoint we are getting the response from the g. Now the step three is adding the
