=== Setting up Central Config Git Repository (396s - 654s) ===

Let's say step one setting up the config file repository. Okay. So within this repository we know that we have to keep all the property file for all the microservices. Okay. So I created a simple git repository nothing like a maven project or nothing simple git repository which has plain files application.propy files yes you can group it under a particular folder also so like I have created one folder global there I have put all these properties application property application hyphen div.tproperty application hyphen prod and application hyphen qa.propy property. So these are different profiles and before I proceed further if you have any doubt with the profile we have already covered in depth into the spring boot series like so we have seen like what is Dave QA pro profiles okay so kindly check it out like if you have any doubt with this like okay what does uh application hyphen dev do.propy property means and uh respectively other files also. Okay. So these are global files. Okay. I name into the folder global and I have put application.properties and it's different profile like Dave pro QA. Similarly I have created one folder order service. Within that I have put all the application all the property files for the order service. Now here if you see that if I have your let's say this is your service order service and within that application doproperty file you give the application name so name is you have given let's say order service so the same name you have to use it here okay so for a particular specific application you have to use application name application name let's say order hyphen service.properties properties order - service - Dave.properties. So different profiles hyphen Dave hyphen prod QA. So these are the different profiles for the order services. Okay. Similarly, if you have different other microservices like invoice, you can create different folder invoice service and whatever the name you have used in the invoice application. We will see that in when we will write the whole code, we will see that the same name you have to use it. Let's say invoice - service.properties invoice- service Dave.properties likewise. Okay. Now very important is the precedence. Okay. These global why I have why I have specifically term the name global. Why? Because application.properties and these are all you can say that applies to all the microservices. For example, let's say you have global and you have application do.properties Dave QA prod likewise. Similarly, you have order it's order service.property order service hyphen Dave hyphen QA - likewise similarly for invoice. Similarly, you have payment service. Okay. So, let's say you have different microservices. So this global act as a fall back okay fall back for which configuration. Now let's say that you are specifically looking for order and let's say this Dave hey you are looking for configuration within this order service and to the Dave configuration. So if that configuration is missing here then it will follow certain sequence to okay what is the next fall back can I fall back to this global okay if yes and if configuration found then it will use that so that's where I mean that very important to understand the precedence so I will come to this points later the first I will want to explain you the precedence
