=== Setting up Configuration Server (1061s - 1599s) ===

Now let's move back uh move forward to the step two. We have already done the setup of this config files. Now we have to set up the config server. So config server is the one which fetch the config from this get. So this application which we are now going to write that ultimately fetches the property from this g. So you can open the spring initializer and from there we can uh add this like whatever the version you want to work with always pick the let's say uh 1721 whichever you are comfortable with right and the stable version. Now here you will see that you have to pick this pom uh dependency config server dependency. Okay. So this brings this dependency into our pom.xml spring-cloud config server. So this is our act as a server and its task is to fetch the properties. Okay. So now let's see that. So first you have done that you have created this project and chosen this dependency config server and make sure that your pom has this dependency addit. Now in its application.properties you have to add certain things. First thing is you have to provide a g URI spring cloud config server get URI. Which g URI? this where we have provided the configuration property files property files right in the g repository so it's git url we have to provide so this is the gurl okay so at this point of time this g is public so you can directly write like this you don't need any username you don't need any password you can directly give the URI link okay if it is a public git repo Okay. Now the second is configuration is spring cloud config server get search path. So here I have created two folders. If you remember from this I created two folders here. One is global another is order service. So I have provided the search path here. Search this folders order service and the global. If you haven't created any folder and just you have like plain dotproperty file without any folders then you don't need this one. But if you have divided into like proper folders then you need to divide uh provide all the folders which it need to look. Then the third is get.clone.onstart. So it can be true or false. So if it is true then what would happen is it will download the property from central config at the time of application startup. If it is false it will be downloaded at the time of first request. So now when you going to start this application config server at the time of application startup itself it will download all the properties okay and cache it. But if you make it false then when the first request come not at the time of application startup when the first request come at that point of time it will download it and then put a cache anyway it will download and put into the cache but at what time either application startup or at the first request that we have to tell. So I would always say that always use clone on start during application startup itself it will download it and put it into the cache. And the third uh and the another uh configuration is get do. Defaulty label like which from which branch you have to fetch it. By default is main itself but let's say you have very u feature specific changes. So you can give a branch name from where this property file has to be fetched. So default is main. Even if you don't skip this one, it will fetch it from mainly. But if you have any different other branch which is not main then you can use this get default hyphen label and you can provide a branch name from branch name of which this config file get repository. Okay. So this is the thing which you require. Now the question might have come to you okay Shan this is the public get repo link we can directly provide a link and it would be able to access it. But most of the cases repos are not public. It is private. Then what to do? So like this. So let's say that whatever the uh config file which I have created this one, this repo I have specifically made it private. So you will see the lock sign here. Now what how to add it? So we need username and password. And for password specifically token. So if you're using GitLab. So in in the gitlab if you see the right hand side of your this is your repo and here if you see three dots within that go to the project setting inside the project setting you will see access token from that access token you just create a new token and copy it. But if you are using GitHub, click on your profile. Within that profile, go to the setting. From that setting, goes to developer setting. From developer setting, you will see personal access token. Click on fine grain token. And you can create one token here and just copy it. Once you do that in the application.properties, earlier you have already provided the URI that is okay. Still we have to do that. But now we have to provide this get dot username get dot password also. Okay. And it's never recommended to directly put your username and password here itself. Okay. Always put into environment variable or if you have any server which manage the keys fetch it from there. Okay. So for now I am putting into the environment. So in the intelligj if you open the run click on run click on addit configuration there you can add so get username get username and you put whatever the username you have so generally after like whatever the gitlab.com github.com whatever the name you have generally that is the username but you can check your profile uh you have created into that g account and see what is the username you have given generally this is the username so you you can Put your username like this. Get username equals to this semicolon. Now your token get the name I have for the placeholder is get access token. G access token. Now paste it your token. Done. So if you have a private rapper you have to just add username and token also. And how you can create the token? You can see this um order like this is the way for the GitLab and GitHub. Okay. So till now what we have done is like we have uh created an application with this dependency config server. We have added application.properties provided the get URI what search path and this what branch we have to fetch the properties. And one last thing we have to do is within the application the main class the main class you have to just enable the config server at the rate enable config server. Why it is required? Because this will turn this spring boot app into central configuration server means it will load the repository file from central config report during application startup and expose certain endpoints. So you can say that if you don't add this the certain beans will not get initialized. So when you add this then spring will get to know that okay you are creating a config server. Okay, which task is to fetch the property from the uh you can say that the central configuration where you have kept a repository from that it has to fetch the configuration and then it expose certain you can say that it has its own controller where it has exposed certain endpoint which we can use. Okay. So this is one of the endpoint/lication/profile/
