=== Precedence of the Properties (654s - 1061s) ===

which This is very important and understand this with this example first. So we will see this example first then we will see this generic one and then we will read this uh this one then it will become super clear. Now let's say you are this is your application order service. This is your application and you are looking for config profile div. Okay. So currently let's say you are working with the profile div. So what is the precedence? So first it will look for order - service - Dave.properties. Okay. So this is the first precedence. Okay. Now let's say that your configuration is missing in this one. Then it will fall back to I told you that these are the global this act as a fallback. Now if you're looking for this configuration within this Dave and the configuration is missing here it fall back to the global one but global one which one there are so many so you are looking for hyphen Dave right so it will first fall back to this hyphen Dave okay so application Dave.property property. So this is a global one but it's a specific profile whatever you are looking for. Now let's say that again you the configuration is missing here. Okay. So now what it will do? Let's go back here. Now the configuration is missing also here in this div. So should I fall back to this one or should I fall back to order service.properties. Okay. So see application.properties properties is fallback for all profile Dave pro qa. Okay. Similarly, order - service properties is fallback for all div QA. Okay. So, first what internally does that it tried to look into the Dave itself application dot application Dave.properties which is a global one but a specific profile. Now if it is missing, if property is missing there, instead of looking into application.properties which is for all common for all microservices, it first look into order service.properties. Now it got fall back to order service.properties. It says that okay uh the configuration is missing into the Dave itself. Then I will fall back to whatever the order service.properties properties has okay because this is common for QA for all profile Dave prod this is the default you can say that okay so first precedence is whatever the exact profile you are looking for or exact application you are looking for so it first look into that otherwise it will look into the global one but exact profile so you will see that the profile is important first so first preference is always profile First exact application then the global one but exact profile if that is missing here then it will goes to the okay now for this application whatever the common for all the profiles I will use that if it is missing there also then it has no choice but to fall back to the full default one like application.properties properties which is for all microservices for all profile. Okay. Now let's say that if that is also configuration is missing it is not there then it will fall back to particular order with each application there is also application.properties application div.properties okay then it will it will fall back to that local. So local always has the last precedence. Okay. So then then it will fall back to application dave.properties. If that is missing configuration is missing there then it will ultimately fall back to application.properties local one local means now with your application whatever the property files you have application.properties file. So this is the same thing I have mentioned here. Okay. Now read this term global properties which I have defined here. Application.property applies to all service and all profile. All service all profile. Application hyphen particular profile. Application Dave application hyphen QA application hyphen prod. This apply to all service but with a specific profile. Similarly we have specific service specific like your application name dotproperties applies to particular service. Let's say you have order service.properties. So this is applied to order service only particular service but all profile DF QA prod. So particular service particular profile. Okay. So this precedence is very very important where most of the confusion happens. If you are clear with this precedence, I think you would be able to properly clearly understand and manage the g repository for this config files. Okay. And also you can just see this this is the generic of this itself like the first uh precedence is application name whatever the particular application you are trying to search and its particular profile if that is missing then the global but the same profile is the next order if that config is missing there itself then the particular application name dotproperties okay now this is common like say for QA dev pro but for particular service only. If that is missing here then it goes to ultimate fallback to application.properties which is a global for all microser all profiles. Then after that it fall back to local a specific microser there application hyphen Dave or QA whichever you are looking for that properties and its local application. is at last. We will see that with an example. I hope this step one is clear and the precedence is very important. Again I'm telling precedence is very important. This is where most of the confusion happen.
