=== @PostAuthorize annotation (1480s - 1751s) ===

is very very similar. So only thing is it does the authorization after execution of the API but before sending the response back to the user and what is the interceptor authorization manager after method interceptor comes into the picture after. So we can see this like I have created two users just for testing purpose. So I have created A user role uh password 1 2 3 and it has role user and order read with the same role and permission I have created B user. So in DB it has uh A user has unique ID 1 and B user has unique ID 2. Okay. Now I am creating one controller let's say read order endpoint / API/ orderer. So in the pre-authorize I have put that user should has role user. So here if you see both has role user. This is also role user. This is also role user and should have authority order read. Okay. So this is a read API. Get read API. get call orders. So they should have order read permission. Both have order read. Okay. Now let's come to post authorized later. Now what would happen when you hit this endpoint / API/order who is trying to access B user 1 2 3 it is trying to hit. What would happen? The first pre-authorized will interceptor will get invoked. It will check does B user has the role user? Yes. Does B user has order read permission? Yes. Then it will go and execute this. So now in this one for hard-coded purpose I have created the order DTO and put a user ID one. Okay. and order id this that this order belongs to user id one and returning the dto. Now here I have used post authorize annotation. So what happen is in this post authorize there is something called return object. Return object it could be if you're using a string if you're using any object it internally type casted for us. We don't have to do that. we only have to use return object. So now I am checking that whatever the user who is authenticated and calling the endpoint. So here in this B user this B B user this unique ID is two. So this user should only get its its own order not somebody else order and this order contains for hardcoded purpose I have put that this order belongs to user ID 1. So now what I'm in the post authorize I'm checking the return object. So this order DTO internally type cast for us order DTO dot user id dot user id equals to equals to authentication.principle principal do id. So authentication dotprinciple do id for this b user the id would be this two. So this 1 equals to equals to two. No. So means this user is trying to access the data of some other user. So it return forbid. But if I use the a user it return me the data. Why? because uh a user principal id is one and here in the hard-coded way I have put user id one only. So they got matched. So here if you see that in the post authorize what I just wanted to tell it access the code and before returning to the end user it has intercepted our return object from there whatever the field we want to check with the data. Okay we can do that logic and then only it will provide the response to the user. Okay. Okay guys, if you have any doubt, let me know. We can discuss further more in the comment section. Thank you. Bye.
