=== @PreAuthorize annotation (512s - 1480s) ===

done. We can update our security config file also. So in the security config file we have to enable this annotation. Enable method security preost enable equals to true. Okay. Without enabling this the pre authorized and post authorized annotation would be ignored. Okay. So in the security config we have to tell that pre-post enabled equals to true. Then only this annotation would get intercepted. Okay. So currently I am doing basic authentic authentication just for testing. You can do with anything this annotation testing with JWT oath or this thing. But currently I'm testing for the simplicity basic authentication. Okay, because our purpose is to do authorization not authentication. So yeah this is the changes we have to do in security config. We have to enable the pre-post enabled to true. And for testing purpose I have created two controller one order and one for sales. So here if you see this is my one endpoint slash orders. Okay. A / API/ orders and this is just I have let's say that all orders have been fetched successfully. Okay. We can make it dynamic. We will hit DB f the data but for now for simplicity because this is not our main purpose. Our main purpose is this. Okay. So I have used the annotation on top of this method in the controller class at the rate pre-authorize. Now here if you see I have used like has ro user I haven't put rod because inside the has ro has ro this is by default get added okay so you have to just put has ro user what is the role we want to give user and authority I want to give order read okay and similarly for the sales/ ai/ sales I have used at the rate pre-authorized annotation and I put that no matter whatever the role you have this has authority you should have this authority sales_read okay and we have already created a user which has both ro user and order read permission. So this is the place where we have created a user right this user is created what is the role rod user and what is the permission it has order read okay so this is totally qualified for this one order controller because it has the user role and it has order read also for sales it required sales read permission which doesn't have Okay. So now let's say that I am trying to access an API slash order/ API/ orderer API. Since it's a basic authentication, I am providing the username password SJ123. This is what I have created a user as username password. Okay. And when I hit it, all orders have been fed successfully. But when I try to access the sales API/ API/ sales if you see the same username password I got forbidden. Why? Because this required permission sales read which this user doesn't have. This user has only order read and user permission. Okay. Now at one at this point of time before proceeding further you might get one question what is the difference between has role and has authority. If you remember I have already explained that in the part where we have done the authority at the authorization at the security filter layer but again I will tell at code level it has no difference okay only difference is that when you use has role it will append roders that's all for authority it do not append anything whatever you give it will be used like that okay no difference and everything whatever the role whatever the authority you have defined everything will get appended into a single list only okay I will show you the code also inside has role also uses the same code authority you calls the same code itself okay so it just like for us very high level you can use role for high level distinction and authority has authority for the gr granular level distinction. Okay. But at the code level, if you go one step down, you will see no difference. Everything would be inside a list only. Ro, rod user and whatever the authority you will define. Let's say order, create, sales, read, everything would be like for this user. These are the all the permissions. Same thing I have mentioned here. Spring Boot treats both has role and has authority in a similar way. Only difference is that for has role rod is appended. So see this code if you open this security expression root on java it has has authority has authority calls has any authority it calls this and has any authority called has any authority name it ultimately calls this method and when you use has role internally it called has any role this and has any role calls the same ultimately no matter what you used has authority or has role both involves the same code. Only difference is that when you use has role right it put a default role prefix which is nothing but a role underscore but ultimately it would have is that a list of get authority set right it will get a list of get authority set. So what would happen is so here if you go while user creation we have given the right get authorities so here I am returning the authorities this authorities will have a role plus this permissions so internally what it does here is it will get in in this list it will have everything role plus authorities generally both are same so but it has the complete list role admin comma all this thing. Now it just check it will iterate that hey does user has this role which is contained in the list or not. So now here in this case what generally happened is you put has role user. So internally it automatically appended this default prefix. So it has put rod user. Now it will check does this present inside this list? Yes. Then it goes to the next one authority order read for order read has authority doesn't append anything. So it will directly check the same list what the same list has this order read also if yes then ultimately return true. So you understand that has role has authority has no difference only thing is the prefix get appended into the has role. So you we don't need to add ro underscore it will get automatically added but we generally use has role for high level distinction and has authority for more granular level distinction. Okay. Now one questions comes to our mind is how this authorization method invokes before invocation of a controller method. So this is is returning true and false right in the security expression root. So has role method get get invoked because in the pre-authorized annotation I have put has role has authority. So these methods are getting invoked. So how this get invoked? Who is taking care of it? So remember this diagram. So that's where I have also explained in previous videos of this spring boot interceptors right I have explained about the interceptor. So pre-authorized annotation is intercepted by this class authorization manager before method interceptor. Okay. So this intercept this annotation and how the interception works. How we can create write our own interceptors. What is the difference between filters and interceptors? I we have already covered this in depth one interceptor video and the filter versus interceptor. You will see how exactly the interceptor works. How we can create our own interceptors. We have already seen that. Okay. So this is one of the interceptors which tracks this annotation. So if you remember we have also created one interceptor we which tracks different annotation. So similarly this annotation is already there in the spring security framework which track this annotation authorization manager before method interceptor. Okay. So we know that okay this is the this annotation got intercepted by authorization manager before method interceptor. Now what it will do? Now what it will do is this whatever the string you provide inside this this is generally known as a spring expression language spel a spring expression language okay so generally what happened is when this interceptor got invoked because of this pre authorized annotation it first read the string from this annotation so it read this string Okay. So currently it's in a string format. Now what it will do is it will pass it to the spell expression parser. So there is a parser provided by the spring security framework which is spell parser. A spell expression parser. So what it do is it will convert this string to a abstract syntax tree. So now you will see the tree like this. What is the operation? End. This is the operation end. So it's left left operand right operand. Okay. So it's at a children. This is children zero. This is children one. So left operand right operent. Okay. So here it has end which is operation end. So it has this invoke this class which internally does this left operand right operent part the same thing. So what I'm trying to say that we don't have to write any of this thing it recursively resolve this expression. Okay so right it's a operation end. So it invokes this method then it's resolved its left operand. Left operent is your this zero part and again if you see this if you go inside this left operent again it's a recursive call. If there is any other operand let's say or so it will goes to that class that will have left right likewise and once that is resolved then it will automatically resolve the right oper and the same recursive operations happen and ultimately what it does is once it invokes all the method all the variables references right ultimately what it will do is this interceptor validate the result and decide whether to invoke the method or not. So these are the steps involved once the interceptor is invoked. So we can use more logical operation like currently we have used end right like has role and we have put and has authority. Similarly we can use or we can use not and similarly we have relational operator we can use like this value. So generally in the API slash user slash you might have some let's say ID. So we can also read we can put authorization logic on this value also. Okay. So value is 15 value not equals to 15. I'll tell you when this comes into the picture like when it would be helpful for us. Just for example let's say I have created this endpoint fetch user details. What is this path variable? Path variable is ID. So the same ID I used here. ID should be this. Okay. Is this pre-authorize post authorize has access to your authentication object. Okay. We can see that. So if you open the code you can open that uh what was that authorization manager before method interceptor right so this is the attempt authorization will ultimately get invoked and attempt authorization if you see that it has like get authentication right so in the get au authentication security context holder strategy which we have put into the filter part okay from there it has the complete authentication object. Now based on that uh so it has access to the authentication object. So based on that if you want to put any logic we can put like this. So here if you remember that let's say I have created one user let's say RJ password is 1 2 3 and in DB and in DB it would be like ID1 RJ username password is 1 2 3. So this ID also comes this this is uni unique user ID. So this ultimately generally called as principal ID. Okay. So let's say that I want to make sure that whatever the user it is trying to fetch an ID. This should be the same user who is authenticated. Okay. So in basic authentication you are putting RJ and the password 1 2 3 right username password for the basic authentication when hitting any API. So first it goes to the filter f the authentication object and that authentication object get principle authentication it has this let's say ID this is the second user username is this password is this now I want to make sure that this API which is getting it is trying to hit let's say this user is calling an endpoint/ user/3 but this user is unique user ID is two so I should not allow this user to hit the endpoint to fetch the details of some other user. So that's why I put this like okay check this whatever the ID user is trying to fetch in this endpoint is the same as what the principal ID what is this user who is actually authenticated. So that way you can also use so post authorize
