=== Introduction and Recap (0s - 161s) ===

Okay, share this side. Welcome to concept encoding and today is the last video of spring boot security. Right. So we have already covered most of the frequently asked and used authentication types and we have also seen one type of authorization which we used to put at the security filter layer itself. Okay. So today we will do the authorization at the annotation level. We will see that. So we as I already told you we have already covered how at security filter layer we can do the authorization. If you remember this code you know that right in the security config class we used to do like this request matcher this API should have this role. Okay. So this is we used to do at a security filter layer but it has certain challenges in large scale application where we used to have hundreds of API. You might think does any orgs has hundreds of API? Yes. Right. There are many orgs which has hundreds of APIs. In that scenario managing the roles at security filter might become difficult and cause a scalable issue. Just consider that you have all the APIs listing in your security filter chain itself and you are providing the roles here. So what is the better solution? The better solution is that the place where we have defined our endpoint generally at controller can we at that point itself we tell what is the authorization required for it. Okay. So means at controller layer at controller layer we can define the authorization okay and that's where our annotations comes into the picture. So here if you see this diagram once this is I have taken from our previous authentication. So what I wanted to show you here is that once a user is authenticated let's say user one is getting authenticated the authentication the full authentication has all the objects let's say granted authorities like whatever the roles we have defined everything is present inside it right all the and the same authentication object reaches till your controller level. So at controller level we will use this authentication object and do the authorization. So see this in the
