=== User creation with Roles and granular permissions (230s - 512s) ===

thing first we will see this annotation based authorization but first we have to create a user. So let's create a dynamic user. I have already shared this uh username and password creation video that how you can create a user dynamically. So here what I am doing is I am creating one table user login and in that I have id username password role and permission. So here it's like what I'm trying to do is let let's say user is shange let me it has a role user it has a role user but I can give I want to give only permission on let's say order API read I want to give this and let's say I want to give order delete request or let's say sales post something you can say that uh sales create permission and but that's all so here if if you see I want to do this authorization like this even though my role is user inside that also I want to control yeah even though you are a user role but only this thing you can do you can read the orders you You can delete the order but you can't create it but yeah you can create sales. So that way I want to create so there what I have done is while creating a user I have a username I have password role either it could be user it could be admin and for this role what all the permission user has. So I have created is one to many relationship. So I have created a user permission. It is also has ID and name. Okay. So one user can have many permissions like order read, sales read you can say that it's like a more granular level we can give here and here it is little bit at the top level user and user is what all granular level permission we can provide here. Okay. So these two tables I created it and here in the entity service. So this is our entity service. In the entity service you already know that we have to implement the user detail service. We have to override this load by username and this is to save. This is repository and this is the controller through which I have to create a user. So this is already we have seen like uh here in this video. Okay. So one thing I will come to this point later but one thing you notice this part we have also seen that in the previous video but here if you see in the get authorities okay when you are implementing the user details right we have to override this method get authorities okay so this is the same thing here if you see in the authentication object there is something called granted authorities this got filled up from this itself. Okay, this got filled from this itself granted authorities. So here if you see I am putting my role and also I am putting all my permission. So this list whatever this authentication will go here right ultimately in the authentication object this list will have everything let's say role user comma order reada sales create so everything will comes inside this granted authorities of authentication object okay so that's why in the same granted get authorities in the same list I am putting my roles and I am putting all my permissions also okay so that's what I'm doing so now let's see now we should be able to create user okay so here I am hitting this endpoint user login and my username let's say SJ password is let's say 1 2 3 role I am giving ro user Okay. And permission I am giving only one permission that is order read. Okay. And user is created. Now the user creation part is
