=== JWT Introduction and recap (0s - 517s) ===

Guys Shandra said welcome to concept and coding and today we are going to do JWT implementation in a springboard. So very very important part and let's see that we will go in depth and clear each and every part of it. So let's start without wasting any time. So from the previous video this one we have already understood what is JWT. It's a stateless authentication method. Stateless. You we already know that server do not maintain the user authentication state. No session is maintained at server side and it has three part. JWT has three part header, payload and signature. We have already seen that each part in depth in the previous video. But for a quick overview, first part is header which is kind of a meta data like what algorithm we are using for signing purpose, signature purpose. Okay, so this is just like what algo we are used. Second is payload. This is the data which actually holds some info specific to application. Let's say that I am uh putting subject ID, some ID, user ID or username or something expiry time, email, right? Uh issuer. So all these details and I have already explained you different types of payload also. Sometime it is also known as claims, right? So we have private claim, public claim. So there are different type of claim which we have already seen in this video. Okay? So for now we know that in the payload we store some data which application uses it. And the third part is signature. The signature part is that where we are using the algorithm whatever we have specified in the header right and we sign the payload. Okay. So it ensures token integrity prevents tempering any change in payload like somebody has changed the role from user to admin. So when we will recalculate or verify verify the signature right that will not match. So this responsibility is that the integrity maintenance of the payload no changes should have happened. So that we have seen. So once we are and also that u all three parts are divided by this dot. Okay. So part one, part two, part three like this header, payload and signature. Okay. And this is the sample token which we have seen like this is first part is header. Second part is your payload. This is nothing but a base 64 form. Okay. This is also base 64 form. Okay. and third one is your signature. So till now here we are clear about the what is JWT and its structure. Okay, if you have not seen the previous video kindly have a look then uh it would be much clear. Now what steps we have to follow to implement it? So first step we will follow is definitely user creation. So we will expose one API API/ user- register through which we will create a user in our DB. Okay, that would be our first step and we have already seen that in the previous video. I think second part of the security is that only user creation part. So once the user is created what we have to do, we have to generate a token. Okay. So here if you see the first step is user creation. So in our DB we have now user user one and password let's say 1 2 3. So that is done. After that we have a token generation means they call something like let's say we will expose API generate token API generate token API in that they will pass the username and password U1 and password 1 2 3. So they will pass it. So here we will do matching matching with the DB and if it's all good we will return a token JWT token. So this is our the second step which we have to do. The third one is token validation. In that one what we will do is now user got the token they have to access any resource let's say / users or any restricted resource they will pass the JWT token to the server okay so it will validate the token okay if the token is valid it will be like allowed the uh access to the resource is allowed out. Okay. If not, it will throw an exception. The last one is refresh token. So sometime what happen is this token is got expired. So there can we we can expose one API / refresh token / refresh token through which we will validate the refresh token and we will generate a new access token. Okay. So we need to provide the functionality to the user to refresh its JWT token. Sometime what happen is this token right which has been generated okay in the step two they have a short live period generally 5 minutes or 10 minutes right so they expired very soon so after 5 minutes again user should not provide its username password so generally in parallel refresh token is also sent to the client they can use that refresh token to generate a new access token okay so all this functionality we have to Okay. So we will go step by step. The first step is user creation dynamically. And again I have already explained how to create a user dynamically in this video. Username and password creation part. Okay. So this is the implementation. Okay. But I have already explained this. So I will not go again into this one. How to create a user. So kindly uh take a reference of this video and the first part we can easily do that we have already seen that in the previous part video. Okay. So just uh like we have created a user controller where I have exposed this user register API. Okay. And uh we have user register entity where we have username password role. User will pass it. We will encode it. we will um hash the password and we will store it save in the DB. Okay. And we also have to uh implement this user detail service. I have already told the reason why right because this we have to implement this override this method and we have to tell to the spring boot how to fetch the data from the DB because spring boot doesn't know what table and all. So that's why we have to implement user detail service this we have already seen. So at the part of this once we done that from API if we hit this / API/ user register and give username is sj password is 1 2 3 role is ro user user is registered successfully message we will get and if we see the db we will see that one table got added user_register this is what the entity which we have created right this is the entity which we have created and we have this ID password role username got added and password is in the hashed form so that's what we are doing right we are creating the hash first and then saving it so I am hoping that you have already gone through this video so you already know that how to create a user dynamically Okay. So that first part is done. Now
