=== Json Web Token (JWT) Generation (517s - 2712s) ===

here comes the important part and now from here we have to understand things much clearly and better. Token generation. So now see that spring boot do not provide any default implementation for JWT authentication. So if you remember from form based or basic authentication have we code anything? No. Framework has all the things ready for us. Okay. We just have to tell into uh spring uh security config what authentication we have to use and that's all. Everything is handled by the framework itself. But for JWT there is no such implementation. Right? Why? You can ask why? Because see for JWT different applications have different requirement. What data you have to put in payload could be different right? What signing algorithm you have to use? What are the refreshing strategy? Some might not need it, some need it, right? So how much time uh this refresh token is valid or not. So requirement is very different for different different application. So that's what spring bootut says that hey I have already have a framework you can go and enhance for the JWT authentication but in simple terms the onus comes to engineer now to implement the JWT functionality we have to implement the JWT functionality and that's why there is no one solution for it different engineers different ways to implement it so if you see different resources you will see that hey somebody has implemented in this way somebody has implemented in this way so don't get confused because since spring boot has not provided the implementation we engineers are implementing it by own so definitely knows one solution would be there different engineer different ways to implement so what we will stick to I will try to stick to security framework itself we will take the advantage of the spring boot security framework network itself and we will try to implement the JWT functionality. We will not create any resource like generate token or uh refresh token something into the controller. We will not use controller. Controller is I will say that put our business logic security related we have a security framework and security framework has given us what do you mean by framework framework is something which you can build on top of it right so definitely we can expand the functionality we can add new functionality of JWT on the existing security framework that's what we will try to do and for that let me give you one quick recap of architecture and from this recap I will tell you one thing which we have to notice which will help us to do this enhancement okay so don't skip this this is very important part like you might say that hey I already know the architecture but here I'm going to tell you one thing which we have to note is very important in this flow which help us to enhance this functionality so we already know that when the request comes in what would happen. The first part happen is security filter got invoked. So now the security filter chain got invoked. The request goes to the filter chain. Correct? There are multiple filter chain. Let's say any one of the filter got invoked. As we seen that right in form based one of the filter get invoked in basic authentication another filter get invoked. So now let's say that any one of the filter get invoked. What they will do? See this very important they create authentication object we have seen that okay like uh in form based what filter got invoked username password filter they create an object of I think username password token this is the authentication so authentication is an interface and these are all its implementation username password token and in the basic authentication there is something called basic uh authentication filter and they might have generated their own token right uh something basic token something so what I'm trying to say that each filter creates their own authentication object very important just keep it in your head for now because we are going to come back to this Again now this filter pass this authentication object to the authentication manager which is an interface and this is the implementation of it. Now what it will do provider manager provider manager delegate this request which is coming to one of the authentication provider. There are many authentication provider DAO authentication provider different different authentication provider. So one of the authentication provider will receive this authentication object and who will pass it? Provider manager will pass it. Okay. Again concentrate on this delegate. So provider manager is the one which delegate the request and how it delegate we will see that because this is going to help us to enhance the functionality and once the provider receives the request they will performs the operation what they are intend to do and then they return back the fully authentication response. Yes, authenticated is true. I am able to match the uh I am able to authenticate the user and ultimately it return the object back to the filter and the filter stored it into the security context holder depend upon the authentication meth method. Right? So this is the basic flow which we have seen till now. But now notice one behavior very important behavior. First security filter is the one which creates authentication object. Okay, which with data coming from request like username, password or session ID or token. So when the request comes in, they will pass either username, password or session ID or let's say JWT token and ultimately with this data filter get invoked and with that data itself it will create an authentication object. So this is be clear. Okay. So here at this point of time authentication object has uh like the details which user has passed either username password or session ID or token but authentication is false currently correct but does it know which authentication provider can handle it? Does it know that at this security filter knows that hey my this object should goes to this provider or this provider. Does it know? No. Who knows it? Provider manager knows it. Authentication manager. So that is the authentication manager. Provider manager is nothing but an authentication manager. So authentication manager has a list of authentication providers. It has a list. It calls support method of each authentication provider. So what happen is this provider manager has a list of authentication provider. Okay. And it iterate over each provider and each provider has something called support method. Support support. So it it calls each provider and calls their support method and check hey I am getting this authentication object. Can you handle it? Can you support it? Any one of them which says yes this delegate the request to that provider. Okay. So authentication manager has a list of authentication provider. It calls support method of each authentication provider and pass the authentication object and check if they can handle it or not. Okay. So it call support method and pass this authentication authentication object and check hey can you handle it any of the provider which says yes it will pass it to delegate it to that provider. So let's see the framework provider manager framework. So we can see this functionality from here. So it iterate over a list of providers. Okay. So here here if you see it has a for loop. It has a for loop iterating over the list of providers. Okay. From this list of provider it is calling support. Okay. It is calling support method for each provider and checking hey can you handle it? If no it will continue go to the next provider and check can you support it. Any one of them say that yes I can support it. It will call its authenticate method. Hey now you go ahead unauthenticated. We have to use the same functionality to implement JWT. How? See that we need to enhance this functionality itself for JWT. Now just see this colored one. Focus on this colored one. If we have to enhance the JWT what we have to do let's say request comes with data let's say token security filter pass it to the chain so one thing first we have to do right is write our custom security filter okay because our requirement is different right so we have to write our custom security filter we can do that we have to add it into the chain okay that is the first part we have to write create our custom security filter and add it into the filter chain. This security filter has to create a custom authentication object. Now you one thing should have come to your mind that okay Shange if I am creating a custom authentication object what authentic what authentication provider will support this because DAO authentication provider does understand custom authentication object no it can handle username password token authentication object it can only support this there might be some other provider they support different so we have to write our custom authentication provider which understand our custom authentication object. Okay. So we have to write our own authentication provider. So we have added the functionality here also. Another thing is that this provider which we have written newly we have to update the list. We have to add it into the list of the provider manager. Okay. So that it will iterate over the list over the authentication provider. Let's say that it has four authentication provider one DAO one different okay so it will when I am getting a custom authentication object it will first check for DAO or for other and then let's say that custom authentication provider comes in it will call it support method hey can you support this custom authentication object it will say yes and then it will delegate the to our provider so we have to add our custom filter into and once the custom filter is added into the chain, right? It has to create an object of custom authentication object. Now since the custom authentication object, we have to write our custom authentication provider which understand this object. Okay. And also update the authentication manager this provider list. So it maintains a list, right? So we have to update it. Now the authentication manager will get this object. It will iterate over the list and calls the support method. Okay. So it will pass it to the custom authentication provider only because it support method only will return true. So now we are getting some hint that how we can implement the JWT functionality using the security framework itself. So can we start now? Let's we can code for token generation part. Okay. And don't worry I have already pushed this code to the git. I will share the link in the member community section. I will share the link or the git link. Okay. First first thing first we need to add the JWT dependencies. Why we need a JWT dependency? Because we need to have an implementation which can generate tokens. Right? So first is this J JJWT API. So this is provide an API only. Okay, we need an its implementation. Either you can use the same JJWT implementation or some other different implementation. I'm using its uh implementation only. Okay. So JJWT impl its implementation. Its uh interfaces implementation API implementation. And the third dependency you needed is JJWT Jackson. It is required for JSON processing. So in the payload you have like key value key value key value. Right? So this is nothing but in a JSON form. So it has to parse it and take out the particular data. So it need a JSON processing capability. So we have to add that also. And with this two it it signs the key, it generate a token. So all those functionality present here we will see that. Okay. So now let's start it. So we have added the dependency. So this is the first filter which we have to create JWT authentication filter. So what we are trying to achieve now we have to create a token. We have to generate token right and when we have to generate a token what we are implementing it we have to expose an API let's say generate hyphen token where user can pass its username password okay what it will do is it will validate the username and password whatever the data has already present into the DB. It will validate it. If it is match, we have to return the JWT token. This is the functionality we are trying to build. Okay. So, first thing which we have added is the filter. So, this filter what it does. Now, see one by one whenever I created a filter, I extended with one per request filter. Okay. Why? What does one per request filter do? So we have a filter chain, right? There are so many filters inside a filter chain. So one per request filter make sure that in one request in one request any filter should not run twice. Okay. So any filter should run only once per request. Okay. So that what it makes sure that because sometime what happen is this filter invoked this this filter invoke this this filter invoke this. So we need to internally it need to make sure that what if it again invokes this. Okay. So it has to make sure that no filter get invoked twice. So that is just its functionality. That's why we have extend our filter with the one per request filter. Okay. So we are creating our first filter and uh we have to implement do filter uh filter internal which is the we have to provide it the implementation of it. So here see that what I am doing I am looking if the path of the API is slash generate token then only go ahead otherwise move to the next filter like this filter will only work when the path is generate token. Okay. So we have to specify because we are writing a new filter, right? We have to make sure that it only process the request which is intend to. So that's where it is doing. So if if you're doing form form based login, form based authentication, if you see it, it will check if it is login, then only go and do some logic otherwise go to the next filter. Maybe some other filter might be interested in this endpoint. Okay, so that's what here I'm doing. If the endpoint is generate token, then only this logic should run otherwise move ahead with the next filter. Okay, and return it from this. Now, yes, user is calling the generate token endpoint. Okay. So in the generate token endpoint we have to pass uh provide a you can object where user can pass username password. So that's why I'm creating a login request object. So here user can pass username and password in the body. Okay. Login request. So now this endpoint is invoked. Yes. And this filter yes match. And then it proceed to work this. So what it will do is it will read the login request first. The login request has username password. What user has passed here? Username password. Now I got the username password. And here if you see that I am creating a token. I told you the filter. What filter first does is create an authentication object. What authentication object I'm creating? Username password authentication token. you something might hit your mind as of now. Hey Shanch, isn't this thing the form based also using? Yes. So if you see in username, password filter which is used by form based it create the same thing username password token authentication token. This is the same token which it creates. Okay. And which provider can handle this token? DAO authentication provider. This DAO authentication provider support this username password authentication token. So you can see that also. So if you open DAO it parent is this one is this has something called support. Yeah. So this username password authentication token is supported by DAO. Okay. that we know that. So you can ask me that hey then why you are creating this authentication token will not the authentication manager pass this your request to the DAO yes that's what we wanted because what does DAO does we have seen that right what DAO does DAO authentication provider whatever the username password comes in first it will create a hash of the password then based on the username it will load the data either from the DB or from inmemory we currently we are storing into the DB so it will load it from the DB then it will match it and it will create the fully authentication object and return so this authentication has like fully authenticated true or false that's what we wanted to do right that's what we wanted to do once we get the username password we have to validate the username password so first we have to hash it then based on the username we have to load the data from the DB whatever the username password is stored then we have to match it and once the matching is happened then only we have to create a JWT token but all this matching logic is already there in the DAO provider so that's what I am using that only so I created this token intentionally and I pass the username password okay so and after that I am calling this authentication manager authenticate and pass this token authentication token to that. Then now you know that what would happen this authentication manager if you go the framework authentication manager will iterate over the providers okay it will check the support hey who supports this username password authentication token the DAO will say that yes I will support and it's will call its authenticate it will do a proper matching and returns ultimately okay and once we get the authentication result. Okay. So since this username password authentication token is a child of authentication only. So we can catch it into the parent. No issues. So once it is authenticated what we have to do we have to generate the token and return. That's what I'm doing. I am I have written one util. I am calling that generate token. Right? And uh once the token is generated I am sending it to the response header authorization beer this one. Okay we will see that but you understand the filter what it is doing. So first filter part is clear right? Request goes to filter. Filter creates an authentication object. Okay. Then it reach to the provider. provider passes to one of the authentication uh uh this provider manager you can say that authentication manager authentication manager pass it to authentication provider in this case DAO provider got invoke it passes the request with authentication equals to true passes to the filter this filter whatever we have written this now it will generate the token generate the token and put it into the response header. Okay. And do we need to iterate to the next filter after this? No. After this, we don't have to iterate to the next filter because we have sent the response. We don't have to go to the controller level here at this point of time. Do we need to go to the controller level? No. So that's why I haven't do filter chain. Do filter here. I don't want to go to the controller. Just return it from here. So if this is clear we will see few things like yeah login request we have already seen that I have created this so that uh user can pass the username and password into the request. Then here I have created JWT utility utility class. So if you see this is the method which I have written where I am calling generate token. Okay I am passing whatever I have to put into my payload. Right. and I want an expiry time of 15 minutes. Okay, so that's what generate token what is the username and expiry time. So this is the API and implementation which we have added into the pom right. So they have exposed this APIs here what I am doing is I am using in the dependency we have added u JJW implaces right API. So we are using that only to create the token. So we are putting the subject issued at expiration whatever the signing algorithm which we have to use we are putting it. Okay. So we have provided like what is our key which we have to use. Okay. And the algorithm which we have to use to sign. Okay. So since we are using HMAC which is a symmetric key means the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt. You can say that. Okay. So the same key is used to sign and verify in this case. Okay. So this is your secret key which should not be stored like this. This is just for demo purpose. I am putting it to static final but show it should be stored somewhere like which cannot be accessed so easily. Okay. So we have our secret key and we use that key and we will sign we will use this algorithm to sign our payload. Okay. So that is the second thing we have which we have done JWT implementation. Apart from that what we have done is in the security config if you see the security config this see the red boxes we have written this newly. Now see that in security filter chain this is the first thing which we have added we have to create an object of this our filter JWT authentication filter right we have to create an object of it see this is not add the rate component spring will not create its bean automatically we have to uh tell okay because it's a filter so that's where inside here in the bean here in the bean configuration we are creating its object. We are creating new JWT authentication filter. We are passing the manager and JWT util. Right? Why we are passing it authentication manager and util? Because it needed it. I have to generate a token. So I need a JWT util object. Right? I have this. It has to invoke this. So that's why I need JWT util object. And also I need to call the authentication u to the authentication manager method. Right? So I need authentication manager object also. So that's why I have this two variables. So this security config filter chain is passing the authentication manager and JWT util to it. Now before going to net yes we have to create an object of authentication manager and JWT util also. So see this first I am creating a authentication manager. There are two ways. First way is you create your new authentication manager. A provider manager is the implementation. Right? So here I am creating a new provider manager and see I am giving my own list of providers where it will iterate over it. So currently I have added only one authentication provider DAO authentication provider. Remember that spring boot do not automatically adds any provider. Okay. If we are creating a new provider manager, we have to tell what all the providers we have to put authentication providers we have to put into the list. So I want only one DAO authentication provider. You know right? Because my filter whatever the token I have created I know that DAO authentication provider can handle it. I have added it. The second way is that get the authentication manager object and update the update the list of authentication provider instead of creating new provider manager get whatever the object is spring boot already created and update its list. Okay. But for now we can do anything. Both are simple. Uh but for now I am using that I am creating my new provider manager and I have provided specifically this list. Okay. So authentication manager we have created it. Now JWT util. So here if you see that JWT util is nothing but add the rate component. So object would be created by a spring boot only. So we are just using that and putting it here initializing it here. Okay. So I am not creating new JWT util. No uh because it has add the rate component. So it object would be created and it would get initialized at this point of time. So now I have this two objects. My authentication filter object is created. Now what I have done extra into the security filter chain. Now I have to see that whatever the filter you have created I told you whatever the filter you have created you have to add it into the filter chain I have created the filter but will it get automatically added into the filter chain no we have to tell we have to add it into this chain and we have to tell the exact place where we have to add spring boot doesn't know automatically where you have to put so that's what I'm telling I'm telling add filter before. So this is the filter which I have created newly. I have to add it before this filter username, password authentication filter. So you know that by default so many filters got added. I think first one is security context holder filter. Second one is username password authentication filter. Third one is basic authentication filter. I think fourth one is authorization filter. So many filters are there. So now what uh this does JWT authentication filter JWT authentication filter where it will get added into this list? We are telling add filter before this is the filter add before username password authentication. So add before this. So this is the place I'm telling add my filter here. Got it? So this is also done. Now one more thing this DAO authentication provider right we have to create its object as I told you that automatically spring boot do not creates authentication provider for us okay we have to tell like what all providers we want to use but you can ask that hey in the previous form based authentication basic authentication we haven't created this right if you remember we were using here something uh called Right. HTTP dot form I think something called customize.default something for basic http.basic customize.default. So this internally it creates a lot of default functionality for form and base. So they create an object like what all providers they might require. So they create an object of it. they create a object and put it into the list. But now here if you are seeing we are not using HTTP basic we are not using HTTP form right and we are not using customize dotdefault. So whatever is required we have to tell so authentication manager object we are creating it and we are telling that hey we need only one authentication provider as of now this is the provider. Okay. So DAO authentication provider needed this two thing password encoder and user detail service because we know that it has to call the password encoder and call the user detail service. So these two things we have to set it and that's what I have set it here. Okay. password encoder which we have already has the object at part of at the time of user creation and user details service user detail service also add the red component we have determined while creating the user so we are just initializing it and that's all so our security config is complete so what we have done till now we have created a filter we have created a filter we have put it into one of the filter chain. There are lot of filters. This is our filter. We have put it into the filter chain. We have provider manager and we have uh have its list ready which has DAO authentication provider. Then we have some authentication provider created. We have created its object which is DAO authentication provider. Okay. So this all we have done. Now what would happen? First is user registered. The first thing we have already exposed the API. User is registering. SJ1 123 ro user in DB user is registered. SJ 1 2 3 its role is user. This would get created into the DB. Now I am calling generate token API. Okay. Now this generate token I am into the body I am putting username password. So this username password is getting by this one login request username password. Now I am hitting it. Now I am hitting it. So what would happen? The filter chain pass it to the filter. Which filter it will get caught is our JWT authentication filter. JWT authentication filter will come. Okay. Because we have already added into a specific place. We have added into after uh before the uh username password authentication filter. So it will get invoked. Now this will get invoked. This will check hey generate token. Yes, this is something I'm interested in. It will take out a username login request. Username password. It will create the token and it will pass the authentication manager. All right. Authentication manager also we have created which has only list of one authentication provider which is DAO. So that framework this is the framework will ultimately get invoked. So it will iterate over this provider only one provider is there support it will call DA1. Yes DAO supports username password authentication token and ultimately it will call its authenticate. Okay. So DAO ultimately will call password encoder call user detail service which will load from the DB match it ultimately return it to our filter and then our filter calls JWT util generate a token and put into header authorization beer. So here ultimately it will put into authorization bearer and this is our token got added. So token is generated at this point of time. So here if you see that we haven't exposed any API we haven't exposed this API into controller we have added into the security filters itself and from there only we handle it and very much specifically we are working with the framework itself weighth uh going way apart from the framework if you understand this right token validation is just a piece of
