=== Refresh Token Generation (3591s - 4328s) ===

reach. Okay. Now another thing come is refresh token. We have to refresh it. Generally access tokens are shortlived. Okay. Like 5 minutes. In our case we are creating a token for 15 minutes. Right here if you see that we are creating a token. Uh where is JWT util? Yeah. So expiry minute. While creating a token we provided 15. So for 15 minutes we are creating a token. So just think from a shoe of a user that hey after 15 minutes I again have to provide a username password and one thing also question comes to that why only for 15 minutes why can't we have it for 1 day 2 day 10 days so for security purpose so you know that in from the previous video the thing is with the token if it get leaked there is no way you can invalidate the token before its expiry so that's why it is always recommended that the access token should be shortlived. Okay. And since it is shortlived, let's say 5 minutes, do we required our customers after 5 minutes you again put username, password? That is not feasible. So that's where refresh tokens come into the picture. So access token get expired. Then refresh token which is generally long lived most probably 5 days 7 days 2 days okay is used to get new access token without requiring username and password okay then all we have to do is keep the refresh token safe that's all okay so we will see that how again first thing first we are creating a filter but yeah now see the frame First thing when generating a token again I'm going back to the first API generate hyphen token. Okay what it was doing is it will validate from DB if matches it will generate the token. Now it will again have to pass one more refresh token two things. So one token access token second is refresh token. Okay. So that is the first thing I'm doing it. So in the existing JWT authentication filter this red box right. So first one we have already created a token for 15 minute which is an access token. I am putting into authorization beer. Okay. I am putting into authorization beer. Refresh token. I am creating again the same JWT util generate token. I am creating one more token but creating it for 7 days. Creating it for 7 days. Okay. And since this is a refresh token, I am not putting into an header. I am putting into a cookie. So see there are two ways. First way is that you return this refresh token in response body. Okay. So that client has two onuses on the client to store it locally store it or in memory. Okay. Another is use a cookie and in the cookie we have something let's say HTTP only it prevent JavaScript from accessing it. I think in front end uh JavaScript there is something called document something right through which we can access the cookies with if set HTTP only set to true you can't do it okay and also you can put set secure equals to true means it would be sent only over HTTPS okay and we can also send that set path means only when this API is hit / refresh-en token okay then only cookie available for the refresh endpoint. This cookie whatever we are putting into the cookie generally it is stored in the browser and browser will send it for all the request generally it's a cookie right so we are making sure that hey browser only send it when this path is hit / refresh token don't add it otherwise for all the requests so with this three things we can make our refresh token secure we don't allow access it we are not storing it somewhere in local otherwise if you are sending in the body then client has to store it somewhere. So we are not storing it we are keeping it into the browser only uh we are we are not allowing JavaScript to access it. We are allowing it over HTTPS and browser will only add this refresh token when refresh token endpoint is hit. Okay but this is just one way of implementation based on your application usage. You can change the uh how you want to send back the refresh token that depend but this is just my opinion how it should be. Okay. So the first I am done is that during the generate token I have also put a logic to return the refresh token also. Okay. You can also ask one question that hey why for access token we are not putting into like cookie and all this things is it not uh safe is it our access token is not vulnerable it is actually but here if you see that's why we call it that it is a short live so generally 5 minutes only for 6 minutes it is valid so since it is for shortlived the risk is very less okay but since uh refresh cookies uh refresh tokens are long live that's why we have to secure it very well. Okay, but this is a vast topic. You can say that is it still a secure or not. But yeah, different application, different requirement, different way to return it. But the core thing here is with generate token, we have to return the refresh token also that we have done it. So this is the first thing we have done it. Second thing I am writing my own refresh filter. Now once this happened, now let's say the token got expired. Now user has to refresh it. So it will call refresh token endpoint. Okay. And I have to validate the refresh token. And if it is validate I need to generate a new access token. So I have created a new filter JWT refresh filter. Again a child of one per request filter. I want to make it run only one time. So here see that I am only interested when this endpoint is hit. If any other endpoint is hit, this filter has nothing to do with it. Go ahead for the next filters. Yeah, if this endpoint is hit, refresh token proceed further. So what I'm doing first extracting the JWT from the request. Okay. So, user has passed the refresh token in the header, right? So, I have to take out this extract it. So, I am extracting it. Uh, so this it is not passed into the header. It is passed into the cookie. Refresh token we have discussed, right? It is passed into the cookie. So, I'm reading the cookie from there. I am taking out the refresh token field. So that's what we put right in the cookie refresh token field and this token would only be available when this endpoint is hit refresh token. So this I'm hitting this uh querying this key so that I can get a value. I got a refresh token. I once you got a refresh token what is the next step which filter does? It creates an authentication object. Now what this refresh filter has to do? Refresh filter has to do validate the token. And if you remember that we have one already provider which does the validation. So I am creating a JWT authentication token right what we have seen in the second I think third step right like where we are validating the token. So the same authentication object I'm using I just set the refresh token here and I pass the authentication manager authenticate. So now in the authentication manager here if you see authentication manager I still have the two provider only DAO authentication provider and JWT authentication provider. So JWT authentication provider will take care of it because it knows how to handle JWT authentication token. So this is the provider. So here if you see we are already we are not doing anything. It's all existing code which we have seen in the pro uh previous uh step. So it get the token whether it's access token, refresh token, it doesn't care. It just get a token and it will validate it. And once it it validated, it fs the user details and return the fully authenticated object. So instead of this place we can extend our uh authentication token itself JWT authentication token to store the user details itself. But for now let's say I'm using this authentication token but no code this all we have done previously in the previous step. So I'm using the same token and call this. So ultimately this provider will get invoked. It will say that yes I support this token. It will validate it and returns. Now if it is authenticated means refresh token is valid. Refresh token is valid. What we have to do is we have to generate a token. So I'm calling JWT util generate token for 15 minutes. It is valid. Expiry time is 15 minute. I'm putting a header authorization beer and added this token. Do I have to do filter 10? Do I have to rest still controller? No, I don't have to rest controller. That's why I put I didn't put do filter here. Okay, I will return it from here itself. So filter chain is also we created uh refresh filter also we created provider we reuse it we didn't create anything uh JWT authentication token we reused it JWT util we reused it generate and validate already there and here if you see in the security config what we have written newly is this we have to create our filter object of it so we have created an object And we have to put this filter into the chain. I am putting add filter after I am putting this filter new filter after this validation filter. Okay. Rest is all what we have done. So if you see that first I am registering the user in DB I got the data. Second I am generating the token. Authentication filter will get invoked. It will call DAO authentication provider validate it and ultimately generate now this see access token and in the cookie refresh token. I got it. Now I am calling refresh token. What would happen is this endpoint will get invoked. Which endpoint? This one. Refresh filter get invoked and this will say that yes ultimately it go next. it will validate it and if it is validated it will generate a token uh into the header response like this. So this is the new token it will generate and in the refresh token which we have to pass it is automatically coming from the cookie what we have in this cookie right ey. So that will automatically pass in this one request refresh token and our filter will read from the cookie validate it and generate a token in the header authorization beer. Okay. And this is very important to make it secure. So the whole code is there in the git link. I will share in the member community section. So you can check the git link and but I think this would be totally clear right now. And the last part is authorization. It is very very
