=== Exception Handling using Default Error Handler (732s - 902s) ===

exception handling error handling. So see this flow what Kafka consumers provide us is that hey above the d serialization logic create a wrapper. So I have created a wrapper. Now everything same decentralization logic. Now any exception happens any exception happen what it does is it catches it catches the exception now. Okay our wrapper whatever the wrapper is there it catches the exception and now it provide one default error handler. What that error handler does is currently there is no retry in the default error handler and it is not storing in into any DT. DT is your dead letter topic. So DT is considered as a topic where all the failed events you want to store. Okay. So that you can take any action in the future. So currently when we add a wrapper any exception happens a default error handler is provided to us which has no retry zero retry no storage into any DT it just log okay and commit the offset that's all okay so how to add the wrapper is very simple okay so earlier our key decentralizer was a string And the value d serializer was JSON right in the consumer. Now it's like kafka.sup support.ializer error handling dializer both. Okay. Now this is a wrapper actually this is a wrapper wrapper above which actual class. So now we have to provide the actual class. Okay. Spring dot d serializer dot key delegate class. So the this key d serializer right. This is the wrapper and this is a wrapper above this class string. So our actual key dializer is a string dializer and we have a wrapper this our actual value delegate class. Our actual value dializer is JSON but we have created a wrapper value dializer is error handling dializer. So this we have to add in our application.properties. properties and when we add this what it does is it create a wrapper when any exception happens our default error handler catches it it just simply log it and commit the offset it also commit the offset now let's see that
