=== DLT Recoverer (Dead Letter Topic) (1732s - 2743s) ===

So first thing first the topic in which topic the failed event should go. We have to create the topic. So in the at the rate configuration class I am creating a bean. We have already seen to the producer how to create a topic. Okay. So I am just creating order. You can give any name of this but here if you see topic builder dot name order events DLT okay dot build. So it will create one topic order events DLT. This naming is important. Okay. Why it is important? Because I told you dead letter publishing recover provide an implementation of this except okay and it has all the logic to insert record in DT. So now if I show you this implementation of this class dead letter. So here if you see hyphen DLT so how it find out that in which topic it has to do is like whatever the like event which got failed it has a topic right order hyphen events so it just append this hyphen dt so this topic should be present okay so this the same topic should be present then only your uh publishing into the topic would get success got it so that's Okay, whatever the event, whatever the topics already you have for order order events, I just added hyphen DLT. Okay, so first thing is done. Second thing is now I am just creating a bean of let's say I am first showing you DT. Okay, so this class is already present. I have I don't have to write it. Now I want to use it that hey whenever any failed event come insert into the dead letter topic and I want I don't want to write the whole logic okay by method. So here if you see it has accept method okay it has accept method I don't want to write all this logic like it's already present why I have to write all this okay so I want to use it so I'm just what I'm doing is I'm creating a bean so dead letter publishing recover that's the only thing I am doing and here the Kafka template you know that for producing any event we need Kafka template template. So all I am getting is a Kafka template object and while creating a object of it new dead letter publishing recover I just pass a Kafka template that's all bean is created all it need is the Kafka template so that it can publish an event okay so it all we have to provide this Kafka template object that's all so that it can publish the event and this is the third our default error handler so in the default error handler Now which recoverer I want is this dead dead letter publishing recoverer. So recover back off if you want. Okay. So now here if you see what we have done is we have an error handler it will do let's say two times retry. So first is original attempt original attempt then retry one then retry two after if it is also failed then it will put into DT dead letter topic how how this is internally working so it's all done like if you see the code wise to insert a fail topic into DT is nothing. It's all done. All we have done here is we have added this error handler which creates a wrapper so that it catch the exception dialization exception. Okay. And uh when it catch the exception instead of default error handler I have created our own error handler now. Okay. So we have created our own error handler which has this recoverer and this retry logic that's all retry will happen after that the failed event would be inserted into DT but since we have an habit of going one level deep like how [snorts] this is working like how it inserted into the DT like what's the flow so this is my understanding so when the pole happens You can say that what information we have is we have topic partition. We have raw bytes and the raw raw key bytes, raw value bytes. Okay. Now I am going really slow because this is critical. There are a lot of uh you can say that brainstorming uh if you go through this own you might have uh think a lot that okay there are so many uh you can say that tradeoffs you [snorts] can say okay I'll show you uh one very important part so when you do a poll let's say what you have is like a topic partition the key raw bytes and the value robes for one record which we have to now deserialize Now while doing a des serialization deserialization issue happen. Okay. Now what would happen is we have a wrapper. Our wrapper will catch it. So now what it does? So it does two things. First it create d serialization exception object. it create an serialization exception object which has all the exception details [snorts] stack trace and everything. Okay. So if you see what our dead letter q implement this accept method the first it need an exception object. So this need to be created right. So when our wrapper which is your error handler right which we have added in the application.properties this one error handling decalizer. So this wrap it up. So it catch it catches and create desialization exception object. First thing is done. Second it create consumer record object. Okay. So now consumer record you know that consumer record has so many information it can have topic it can have partition it can have key it can have value. Okay so topic we have the information it will set it properly partition it has the information it will set it. Now key and value. So now possible is you can have a decentralization issue with key or decelization issue with value. So whichever with fields you have a issue that would be null otherwise data would be set. So example your value des serialization field. So there was an issue with the value let's say. So how your consumer record would look like here in the value is null because you have a des serialization issue with value but key it's properly able to deralize it. So in the consumer record key has a proper value but the value is null and it also have one more information header. So see dialization issue could be either with key or value only two things right. So it has two header spring decentralization exception key spring decentralization exception value. Okay. And here in this header it put the raw bytes whichever it has an issue. So it has an issue with the value right null. So in the header it has a spring decalization exception value and the raw bytes. For example, if you have issue with the key decentralization for example, then your value is like proper order object but key would be null and header would be spring decelization exception key and the raw byes of the key. And let's say if you have decelization issue with both now you know that value would be null key would be null and in the header you would have a spring decelization exception value also and its value bytes raw bytes also. So you got it. So we have created an exception object. We have created a consumer record object. So two things we have created. Okay. And that's the only two things we needed. Our consumer aware record recover functional interface needed two things consumer record and exception. So both things our wrapper has created. Okay. Now what this wrapper will do? Wrapper will pass this information to error handler. Our error handler which we have created default error handler. Okay. So what error handler will do is first do retry if anything. Okay. So if we have multiple retries, it will perform all the retries with back off and everything. And after all the retries are finished, we have a recoverer present, right? It calls the accept method. Okay, it call the accept method and pass this record consumer record and the exception. It has both the information. Okay. So at this point of time what for DT we are using DT recover right? Dead letter publishing recoverer. So this implementation of the accept is already present. It knows how to insert into the DT. This logic is present. So it will invoke the accept and when the dead letter publishing recover except method is invoked it insert into the DT topic. Now here if you go little inside this accept. So see this accept method is too big. this accept method and uh if you go inside this and if you see this accept method if you go keep on going inside this method it's a big there are a lot of business logic because it has to read the value from the header and all so I tried to simplify this into this what except internally doing it so this is the very critical publish uh new producer record and after that whatever the producer record I have got we need to publish it Okay. So this producer record from the producer you know uh it takes three parameter topic key and the value. So what is the topic? It create a new producer record. Topic is from the consumer record. Get the topic and put hyphen DT. I already showed you. So this is how it decide in which topic DT topic this failed event need to go. Cool. What should be the key? Now I showed you various scenario in the consumer record. In consumer record we have a key value and header. One for uh d serialization exception key and another is uh d serialization exception value. Okay, des serialization exception key and value. So if key is null means there is an issue with the key and you will have bytes here. If value is null means you have a dialization issue with value and then you will have a bytes here. But if there is no issue with value let's say for example then this would not be present and you would have a proper object here. The same logic it has done here. So what it tries to do that if there is a key present record dot key present means value present not raw bytes use it otherwise f the raw bytes from the header add it. Similarly for value if consumer record has the value object use it otherwise f the raw bytes from the header and then add the raw bytes. So this is the thing but we don't have to write this everything is present. If you go inside this create producer record see this this is the logic same if key not equals to null. Okay, use the key and it put it here. Okay, so this is like you can go through it but this is what I have simplified it. Okay, uh understand that either raw byes would be present if there is an issue with the key if there is no issue with the key proper object would be present. Similarly for the value now very important part whenever we do produce a message from the producer setup you know that we need to add a serialization serializer we need a key serializer we need a value serializer okay yes we don't have to write this code okay this whole flow is just for understanding it is already present everything okay All we have to do is create a topic beforehand. That's all the dead letter pushing recover because we have to use a DT. So we have to just create it object pass the template and our default handler with the proper retries and whatever the recover we have to use. So dead letter publishing recover object we have to just assign. So this is something we have to write and the wrapper where that wrapper goes. This one this we have to write. Okay. And everything is done but only one last piecing is one last missing piece is that when we have to publish an event we have to provide a serializer. So we have to add the serializer. Now what we have to add? Now you might be saying hey Shash why there is like you are thinking too much like what serializer we have to add a key value. So from this above code if you have noticed that the value of key and the value during produce record what it can be key could be let's say your let's say for value it could be order object let's say if there is no issue with the decentralization of value so it has an order object but if there is an issue with the decelization of the value it would be bytes. Okay. So in this scenario we need to have a JSON serializer. In this scenario we need to have a bite serializer. Now it's a problem right? So this is one brainstorming part like based on in your company in your team you can discuss use case one value decentralization issue. Okay. So how our consumer record will look like key has a proper value but value is null and in the header d serialization exception value is raw bytes. Now the producer record would be this is our topic order - events DT this is our topic key would be record from the key because this is not null and value is null so it will read from header bytes in this scenario the serializer we have to add is the key should be string and value should be bytes byte array serializer then only it will work. Okay, let's
