=== Error Handler with Retry(Fixed and Exponential Backoff) (1072s - 1464s) ===

Yes, we have to log it. That's fine. But we also have to store the event failed event somewhere, right? So that it should not lost. We should never lost any event on which we haven't perform any action. Okay. Now with the default error handler what happen is it log it print the stack trace and committed the offset hey I am done now let's say if in future I have two consu customer comes up hey what happened to my this request which was in Kafka now it's gone like our offset has been increased okay now I don't know exactly which one is the failure okay so one very important thing is that in production I would say that we should not rely on like this default behavior like simply log and skip that's all skip the event itself we should be either store the event which is failed either into DT the dead letter topic or in DB or you send the alert whatever you have to do but at least some action we have to do okay plus we also need to do the retry Generally when we have a des serialization issue retry do not help. Retry generally you can say that may be possible uh if there is a timeout exception or something but generally decentralization issues retry do not help but let's see how we can add a uh retry plus how we can store the events into DT or DB or send the alert. But if you have not understood what exactly happened after we have added it, don't worry because we are going one level deep. Now at this point of time all we have to understand is that decentralization if you don't handle it our consumer can get stuck. We can add a default error handler. Okay, using this it will just add a wrapper above dialization c the exception simply log it and commit the offset but how it internally does we going to see that okay but here if you see very simple we just added a configuration that's all all everything is handled by the framework so first thing we need to add a different retry strategies like we want to add a so whatever the error handler. Now we have to add a retry. So here one more thing is the default one. Let me see the default one. It might be printing. Huh. So it uses the default error handler is using back off fixed back off interval zero current attemp one max attemp zero. So max attemp is like how many retries is allowed. Okay. And uh interval is like after the delay of certain time there should be a delay of certain time between two retries. You can say that. So currently it's zero and max attempt is also zero. No retry. Okay. But if you want retry also what we have to do is we have to create this bean ourself. Whatever the bean it is creating right default error handler we have to create that bean ourself. So in the uh class which is annotated with at the rate configuration we have to add this bean. Okay you can give any method name. Okay the bean return type should be default error handler. Now we are creating an object of it like new default error handler and what is the back of which we are uh providing is there are multiple one is fixed back off another is exponential backoff we'll see that so fixed back off I'm creating a new fixed backoff now I provided this different value so what it will do is it will wait for 1 second 1,000 millisecond before retrying again and how many retries I am allowing it max two retries need to be done. So when the first attempt original attempt fail it will wait for this much amount of time 1 second after that it will do retry one if that fail it will wait for 1 second then two retries are possible right so that's why retry two if that fail then only it will stop then only it will commit the offset and then goes out okay similarly if you want different exponential backup with max retries this also you can do so here I am creating a same bean okay uh which is returning default error handler so I'm creating new default error handler and now the backoff object which I'm creating is new exponential backup with max retries so here total five retries I wanted 1 2 3 4 5 okay and initial interval initial interval says that the first retry happen after this much delay Okay. And after that back off set multiplier of two. So let's say first after 1 second the second retry into two 2. The third retry is into 2. 2 into 2 4 secondond. Likewise every time multiply uh multiply the delay by two. So 4 into 2 8 then 8 into 2 16. So how much retry possible is overall? Five. First retry delay is 1 second. After that always multiply by two and this is the maximum delay 10 second. So like multip let's say you have given the max retry let's say 10. So first time happen 1 then 2 then 4 then 8 then 16. So it say that hey if you if your delay goes more than 10 this is the max. So always use 10 second after that. Okay, for further retries. So this is exponential backup which also you can use. So retry feature is simple. Okay. Now
