=== Demo of DLT (when value and key deserialization failed) (2743s - 3278s) ===

first see this example till now here. Okay, till now here let's see this. Let's set up the DLQ. Okay, so here uh in the consumer we have a wrapper. Okay, so this is our key decalizer and value D serializer. This is are the wrapper and these are the actual classes for the key a string and the value is JSON. Okay. So producer is sending a string but consu the producer is sending a string and consumer try to dialize as JSON. So dialization at value will fail. And so this is the scenario right. So our value will ultimately get null but key would get proper value and during this producing the message. So topic key would have the proper string. So in the serializer key serializer we have a proper string serializer but the value would be bytes. So here in the value serializer I have bytes array serialization. Okay. So done. Let me start the consumer application. Consumer application is started. Okay. Now let's send one buggy message. Order - 33. Let's say I send it. Order created. Event publish. Now let's see what happened. So here our consumer application if we see h so no exception at this point of time right so because now default is not logging okay now we have used the DT so this failed event might have reached to a DT so we can check our DT topic so here I am checking broker one logs order events - DT let's say partition one I'm checking so oh yeah so there is some records in the partition one and what it is so here if you see offset zero and uh these are headers I told you right a lot of headers it had I showed you only two headers for key and for value it have lot of headers but what is the payload. This is the test message. Okay, because producer is sending a string, consumer is tried to JSON decelerialize it. Exception happens and the record goes into this. Okay, so you can hit another. Let me hit one more time. Same thing. Okay, so here now another record might have come. So this is clear. Now here if you see another use case if key decentralization field see why I'm showing you this two use cases because there is one hidden gap. Now what if use case two key dialization failed. What would our consumer record value has order object key is now null and in the header we have a dialization exception key bytes and what is the producer record would be look like topic proper. Now in the key what it should be key bytes would be there and the value object would be present. Now will the same serializer will work? No. Now you want the key serializer should be bytes and the value serializer should not be bite. It should be an object. So now it should have this uh key should be bite and the value serializer should be JSON. So now you might be thinking right then like uh we can't just change serializer again and again right like it's uh challenging and it is also possible that in many companies keys are also an object keys are also an object so it's possible that sometime value dialization fails sometime key so you can have all possibilities so key value so you can have here let's say now bytes during this publish record and here you have an object. Sometime you can have here object this is bite and sometime both are bytes okay now what to do this is challenging right you can't have one serializer now for all this case so that's where my here so see there are again from an architecture point of view I would say that the one thing is that hey do you really have key as an object if Yes, [snorts] then yes we can discuss further. But if no key is also an string then there is a very less chance or you can say that no chance that there is a dialization issue with key comes. Okay then only the value dialization issue will come and then if it comes then it can only have a baryialization. So this will work if your key is a string let's say but in scenario where your key is also an object where your key is also an object then the safest is that the key serializer should be bite value serializer should be bite that means when we produce the record our key should always be bytes order should always be bytes Okay. So here indirectly if you see the dead letter publishing recoverer. Okay. So this is the method create producer record which actually does this part. If key not equals to output key okay which is nothing but a bytes otherwise the object you can say. So we need to change this. we need to override this create producer record method and that's what here I have done that so in consumer config okay so here in this one see when creating a dead letter publishing recoverer what we generally do is we create a new object that's all but now I have also overrided this method Now I am already making sure that whenever we are doing producer record we have a topic partition whatever the key and value is always should be bytes only. So I just put this logic. So key is not equals to null. Okay, key is not equals to null then I'm putting a key itself means it's an already a bytes because see this method create producer record it accept byte so means already a bite otherwise convert it to a bite similarly if value if value not equals to null mean bite is coming so we have directly used it byte otherwise convert it to bytes Okay. Now with this case we can always use serializer as for the key is byte serializers. This byte serializer byte array serializer safely. So that's what I showed you here. So now while creating a dead letter publishing recover I just overrided that method and just make sure that if this key is not null so use this bytes otherwise whatever the uh from the record key is coming right it just first convert it to bytes. Similarly if this value bytes is not null use this otherwise record dot get whatever the value convert it to bytes and then use it and that's all. This is the same now you don't have this issue which serializer to use again nobody like I don't think so uh interviewer also will go into this depth this is only for who are intensively working in Kafka they might have stuck to this scenario that this during error exception this issue can also come how to handle it okay now you might be saying that Okay,
