=== Error Handler with Recoverer Capability (1464s - 1732s) ===

retry is also added in our default handler. But after all the retry is finished, what happened? Still it will just simply log it and commit the offset. But how to add into DT? How to add it into DB or if I want I how to send an alert. What to do that? There is something called recoverer. Okay, this is important because this is where you can perform these task. Okay. So this is the functional interface consumer record recoverer. This is the interface. functional interface which has this method accept and this two generic objects. Now it is extended by consumer aware record recoverer. This is again a functional interface and you can say that it has specify this like this first first parameter should be consumer record and second parameter should be exception. Okay. Now there is one implementation already provided by the framework dead letter publishing recoverer. We don't have to write this class. It is already present and this implement this consumer aware record recoverer and you can say that provide the implementation for this except. So this except has consumer record information and exception information. Remember when you have to insert the record into DT or DB or alert when there is any exception happens in case of dialization you have bytes now you're trying to deralize there is an exception happens correct so you have you got an exception that's why now you're trying to insert into DD right so it has exception information also It has record also which are like which topic key value okay and exception information and all the logic to insert into DT is present here itself we don't have to write anything so DT implementation is already present but if you want to different implementation DB alert we can also write that simply I will show you how okay but understand this this is interface Function interface. Functional interface which has this method and this class is already provided by the framework which implement this except method and has two field record exception and it has a logic to insert record into the DT. I will show you the logic also. Now very very uh like here if you see that like now we have to add this dead letter publishing recover into our error handler. Now how to do that? Earlier how what we are invoking this new default error handler and the back off. Now we will use this method overrided method already present. So when we will create an object we will create like new default error handler consumer record recoverer. This one consumer record recover it's a functional interface. Remember it's a functional interface. Why I am forcing here it's a functional interface because when functional interface are present you can provide lambda expression. Okay. So first is your functional interface which has one accept method and two parameters. So this can be also this is a child of it. So we can provide one record and exception. Okay. And the second is the back off. Now let's see how we can add failed event to DT or to DB or an alert. Let's add DT feature in error handler.
