=== Poison Pill problem (Exception during event Deserialization time) (149s - 326s) ===

during deserialization step. So if we understand this properly exception during uh dialization step this is using the same framework itself like the solution is similar. Okay only you can say that the place is different but the solution is same for both the exception handling exception handling whatever the framework we are going to use that is same for both. Okay. Okay. So if you understand this, it is also using the same thing. Nothing different. Cool. What is the problem? Dialization step is infinite loop. And this can happen because of one bad message or you can say that one poison pill. So poison pill when interview say it mean a bad message. one bad message and when your consumer try to desalize it, it can stuck forever in an infinite loop and even if you stop it and you run it back again, it will goes to the infinite loop. Let's say this flow the producer publishing the value as a string. Okay, it goes to the broker and the consumer but expecting the value as JSON let's say. So it tried to des serialize this as a JSON. It tried to convert to an object. But this is let's say string. So during des serialization an exception happens. Okay. Because uh here it is sending an string hello. But here it is expecting a JSON like proper JSON format key value. So decentralization exception comes. So what generally happened today is it will print the error stress and then again goes to the pole. Okay. Now see what happen is currently let's say the offset read currently it point to two means whenever the consumer need to fetch the next record it will fetch this offset and this is the offset or or you can say this is the offset where record which is present at this offset is the buggy one. So now when every time you do the poll you get this message present at this offset. So again the decalization exception happen again you print the stack trace again pole it goes into infinite loop because you are not able to success successfully read this offset. So commit is not done. So your consumer goes into infinite loop and even if you stop it run it and after when the consumer is up what it will do it will automatically do poll and while polling it up it will fetch this record next record which is again a buggy message again goes to infinite loop. Okay let's see the demo first like if
