=== Demo of Poison Pill problem (326s - 732s) ===

you are able to reproduce this issue. Uh so this is my producer. So in application dot uh properties currently let's say first uh let's see our producer consumer setup is working properly or not uh we will send one write message. So key is string value is JSON only and order controller when this API is hit it will send uh key is a string and order is an object. So everything is right. So producer I am starting. Okay. So producer application started and consumer is also reading a string and uh value is JSON properly and here it's reading this topic received order event. So let me start the consumer also very very simple. So first let's see that everything is working fine then only we will try to reproduce it. So I am sending I'm hitting the event order let's say 01 order created event publish so it is in partition zero and it is able to read it properly and let's see here in the partition zero Okay. 01. So loss is there and also we will see we will see the consumer status also like their offset because uh they should have read it properly right so I'm just checking the consumer offset issues. So just a sec. So consumer group. So this is the our consumer group right. So here let me open the application.properties order consumer group we just want to check its status. So yeah so here if you see hm so three partitions we have partition zero partition one partition two and how many consumers we have is only one. Okay. So all three partition is assigned to consumer one itself. Okay. So that is fine. And here if you see current offset partition zero. So our event goes into partition zero. Right? So current offset is one. Log offset is one. Log offset log end offset means one record is present overall in this partition. Okay. current offset denotes like what is the next partition which consumer has to read. Okay. So now they are going to expect one because zero is already readed successfully. So offset zero is properly readed successfully. Consumer read the offset zero successfully. So our producer and consumer is working fine. Now let's reproduce this poison pill problem. So I'm stopping the producer first. Okay, I'm stopping both. So in producer what I am doing is the value now I'm going to send is a string. Okay, the value now I'm going to send as a string and here instead of order object I am sending a string. This is not a JSON. Okay, let's start the producer application. So only one change I did in the producer is sending a string value not JSON and what consumer is expecting consumer is expecting a value as JSON. So it will try to convert that string to a JSON des serialization will fail. Okay, that's our expectation. Let's see what happened. So now I am starting the consumer. Consumer started all good. Now I am let's say 02 this is the buggy message which is going to go let's say see the infinite loop is going on. So this is the stack trace which is it is printing and it goes into infinite loop and here if you check the status. Okay. So it goes into which partition two producer it goes into partition two. Okay. So in partition two here if you see one event is there. It is not consumed anything. Lag is one. It is not consumed. Lag means it is yet to be consumed. And our consumer is continuously going in infinite loop. So I have to stop the consumer. Now let's say you have stopped the consumer. Now when you make it up, I am making the consumer up again. It will again goes to infinite loop. Here if you see it will again goes to infinite loop. Why? Because it will do the poll for this partition. What is the next offset I have to read is zero. Okay. And here zero is the buggy one. So partition two, right? Let's see the partition two. Order events hyphen 2 at which broker it is present. Uh yeah, this is the one. This is not a JSON, right? So this is the buggy payload. You can say that value is not a JSON. And when it tried to fetch this, it again goes into infinite loop. So we have to stop the consumer. So you got it this infinite loop. And why this issue is called a issue happened through a poison pill. And poison pill means bad message that now your consumer is stuck forever. So this locks I have already showed you. Okay. And this consumer I have already showed you the demo that uh lag and everything and the consumer log also you can see that uh like decentralization issue and all like because of which offset reading and all. Okay. So that is all done. You I think at this point of time you would be able to understand when decentralization exception happens [snorts] and we are not doing any exception handling then one bad message can make our consumer stuck forever. So what is the solution? Solution is yes
