=== Question1, How Eureka server knows whether client is up or not? (1330s - 1786s) ===

So first thing is how does Ureka server knows whether a client is up or not. So Ureka server know by two way. First is client dregistration request. Another is through client heartbeat. Let's say that first when client application is gracefully shut down then ureka client send a dre registration request to ureka server it marked the client status as down okay so now let's say that currently product service is up okay now I shut down this product service application from the ID I shut down this application so if you see the log You will see that hey it will call unregistering application with Ureka with status down. It is calling the Ureka server with the status down and after that and if you check the server ureka server logs it received it registered instance this with the status down and then it updated the status with down for this one. Okay. So one is through if gracefully things happening then dregistration call happen from client to server and with that ureka server know that client is down but now let's say assume that your client got shut down but without any without sending any dregistration request maybe because of network issue or something then how it will know it will know through heartbeat every client periodically sends heartbeat to the Ureka server. Okay. So, Ureka server wait for the heartbeat from the client for a particular interval. We can we can configure this interval. I will show you. Okay. So, Ureka server wait for the heartbeat from client for a particular interval. If no heartbeat receive within that time interval, it remove the client instance itself. It consider it dead. So, consider this client application.properties. Okay. Let's say product service. So these things we have set the port number, application name, the Ureka server URL and registry discovery. We have already set this. Now concentrate on this two new config. The first is ureka.instance dot least renewable interval. So least renewable in interval in second means that after this much seconds client will set the new heartbeat to the server. So I said 60 means after 60 seconds the ureka client will send the heartbeat to the server. If you don't set it by default is 30 second. Then another config is ureka.instance of lease expiration duration in second. Lease expiration. This is like telling server to wait only this much time for the heartbeat. After that you can remove it from the list. default is 90 second. So this means that client is telling to the server that hey this is the maximum time you can wait for my heartbeat. If you don't get the heartbeat within this time you can consider me as like unavailable. So in this example generally this time is greater than this time but for this example only I have taken it very less. So after 60 seconds the client will send the heartbeat to the server but server will wait only for 5 seconds. Okay. So it will mark it as dead. We will see that and in this ureka server application.properties what we have to do is we have seen this config already. Now these two config we have to set. First is enable ureka.server enable selfpreservation false. This by default this is true. We have to make it false because we need to allow server to remove the instance if heartbeat is not received. So if it is generally true right so generally even though the heartbeat is not received the server do not remove it. Okay. So if you make it false then means we are allowing the server. Hey if heartbeat is missed feel free to remove it. Okay. And the second is that eviction interval timer. So sometime what happen is like even the uh even the client is down even the client is down but server has to run like server check for the dead instances. Okay. Whatever the instances are configured it has to look a is this dead or not? If it is dead remove it remove it from the list. Remove it from the list. So we have to check the eviction interval means how often server check for dead instances even the client is dead it's okay so it and we have also tell that remove it but it does it has to run through an interval right it can't just like every time it keep on running uh that I have to remove it so we have I have set a 6cond after 6 second just look if you see any dead instance remove it. If you see any instance for which heartbeat is missing, remove it from the list. So this is the client configuration. This is the server configuration. Now here if you see earlier product service is up. Okay. And what is the configuration? I have set heartbeat uh which is I think a lease renewable time I set is uh 60 seconds and lease expiry I think le expiry right lease expiration duration I have set is 5 second means after 60 seconds product service will send the heartbeat but server will wait only for 5 Okay. So after 5 seconds if you see the application is removed from the dashboard from the registry itself. Okay. Because of this configuration you can test this also right like here I my application is running. Okay. So we can check this like let me stop it uh once. So ureka server self preservation is false. Interval 6 seconds I have set up and in the product service heartbeat will send for 60 and expiration let me allow for five just for testing purpose so that uh we can check so let me start the urea server for now and let me start the product service and then let's see refresh it so currently product services there up let's wait for 5 second 1 2 3 4 5 6 it's gone. Okay. So we can you can uh do testing and these things will get clarified. Okay. So we know the answer for this one, right? How ureka server know whether a client is up or down? The second is how does ureka server
