=== Whats the need for Service Discovery (23s - 236s) ===

service or component are created and deleted dynamically we can know that Right. So let's say our instances itself, let's say we have our microservices order definitely in microservices one of the advantage is that we can have as many instances based on the traffic. But these number keep on changing. If traffic is more I can spawn more instances. If traffic is less I can reduce the number of instances. So instances are created and deleted dynamically. We cannot hardcode the URL of a particular instance. It's not scalable and not feasible. So till now while we seen rest template rest client f client order service is making call to product service and everywhere we have hardcoded the URL. So it's okay for the testing perspective but in production we never hardcode these URLs right. So in above example order service has hardcoded the URL of the product service and it is okay till we have only one instance of product service. If you have only one instance then it's okay you can hardcode it. But in case if we have multiple product service instance right and which is very very possible right let's say in this scenario so I have instance one instance two instance three all have different your IP address and port number all has different IP address and port number but if you have hardcoded the URL your traffic will always goes to one of the service only goes to one of the service only Okay. And it is also possible that a particular instance can be removed. But since you have hardcoded it, you you will try to connect to an instance which is removed. Then you will face connectivity issue. Right? So there are lot of challenges like first is single point of failure. Single point of failure is is hard-coded instance of product service goes down order service will not be able to communicate with other instance. That's what I told like if you have hardcoded it and I have removed this instance then you won't be able to communicate it. So it's a single point of failure. No load balancing. So even though I have three services since you have hardcoded it every time the traffic goes to this instance only even though my these two other instances are sitting idle. Okay. Tight coupling. So because of hard-coded URL in the order service, there is a tight coupleness between order service and product service. Now let's say that I have to move the product service. Okay. And maybe its IP and port address need to be changed. Then you first have to update the order service and then only you can migrate your product service otherwise it's not possible. Okay. So it brings a tight coupling difficulty in testing different environment might use different URL which require frequent changes in your config. So if you have hardcoded it let's say now you are testing on uh Dave then you need to change this. If you're testing on stage you are need to change this. Okay so with different test environment uh production QA Dave different URL and then you have to keep on changing it if you are doing a hardcoded. So
