=== Set up of Eureka Server (498s - 747s) ===

Okay. So now let's set up each application one by one. So let's set up ureka server once. So I am creating a new application through spring initializer. Okay. So you can we have already set up so many applications till now. You can set up one uh simple application dependency I have only put web for now. So very very simple application I have created. Now to make it a ureka server what we have to do first I am adding a dependency. So this is the first step like I am adding a spring cloud starter Netflix ureka server dependency as ureka is developed by Netflix which has been integrated in spring cloud. Uh so this is the dependency we have to add and for the version which version I am using the dependency management we have already seen right in previously in fain client also I have also mentioned that uh for the spring cloud it's always better that use dependency management uh to resolve the version of it don't put direct version here because in spring cloud if if in future you have to add more dependency of spring cloud then those different let's say fing I am using also fin so fing is like different cloud spring cloud different library this is ureka server is different library so they should be compatible to each other so you the version which you are picking should be compatible to each other so I don't want to handle uh this version compatibility I don't want to manually handle that. So that's why dependency management helps me in that or you can say that ease the task for us. So we just tell what dependency we want its version. This will take care of it. Okay. So we have added a ureka server dependency in our pom.xml. So that's the first thing. Second thing what we have done is we have enabled the ureka server. So we have put the annotation at the rate enable ureka server. So it tells spring boot to create necessary beans which is required for ureka server like ureka controller dashboard etc. Okay. So till you don't add this annotation the beans will not be created which is required for ureka server. So we have to tell the spring boot that it's a ureka server application. Treat it as a ureka server. Okay. The third is application.properties. So the application name I have given the port on which it's going to run. I have given. Now these two are important. So I told you what does the client do? Two things. The I have a client. This is a server. Client does two things. One is register itself and another is discover the instance like hey give me the instance discover fetch other instances so if you are a server I don't want to do both this thing so that's why register with ureka false fetch registry false by default these two are true so I told that hey I don't have to since this is a server I don't have to register it and since this is a server I don't have to fetch the registry also I don't have to discover also okay so I have both made the false so these three things I have done and what's the port number I have configured 8761 so if I put started the application and put local host 8761 this is the dashboard you're going to see so this dashboard would be up so currently no application is registered No instances registered. So now let's set up a Ureka client
