=== How Api invocation works with Eureka Client & Server architecture (971s - 1277s) ===

invoke product service? Now order service has to invoke the product service like now we can do. So this is the previous without service discovery. Earlier let's say we were using rest template. So we were creating a rest template object. After that we were invoking get for object if you remember if you can recall and then we'll give the URL. We hardcoded URL. This is the hardcoded URL of the product service. Okay. Specifically we were mentioning the URL. Okay. Now with service discovery what we have to do is if you are using a rest template then there is something called discovery client. It is present into spring framework cloudclient.discocovery.discocovery client. Okay. So this discovery client we have to first fetch an instance discovery. You have to discovery the instances. So get an instance of this service product service. So remember the name should be given properly which other application has set up in their application.name because the same name goes here into the ureka server also. Okay. So you are using a discovery client object to fetch the instances of a particular service. Now what would happen is you will get a list of instances. You get a list of instances and this service instance contain lot of information like URL, port number, the URI, uh name, lot more information. So but consider this that in the rest template in the rest template once we get a list of instances let's say for product service there could be 10 instances there could be 100 instances so we have to choose a particular instance you have to manually do the load balancing so for now I am just doing get zero no matter how many instances do me the get zero this is just an example but instead here load balancer logic should be present either round robin choose or whatever the logic. So load balancing logic we have to add it in the rest template or either you have to integrate with spring cloud load balancer you have to integrate with spring cloud load balancer if you don't want to write your own logic otherwise you have to pick a particular instance and once you get the instance use that URI here so now here if you see that I have not hardcoded it okay so I'm getting a list of instances I am picking picking one of the instance based on my logic load balancing logic and whatever the instance I have picked I am using that and invoking the API. Okay. So this is just a relative path the host and port number is coming from this. So with rest template load balancing logic need to be handled. But let's say if you're using faint client or rest client also the mostly the same behavior with faint client load balancing is handled automatically by the framework itself. Now when you get a multiple instance and framework has to choose one. So load balancing is handled automatically. So we have to add a load balancing dependency also if you are using faint client or rest client because now framework has to pick a particular instance. Okay. So now framework is doing certain task for us and if framework has to choose it chooses via load balancing. Okay. So whenever we use fang client plus service discovery then we have to add a load balancer dependency also because it is load balancing is handled automatically by the framework. So earlier without service discovery what we were doing is add the red fing client I think you can recall this we we have discussed in depth and we provide the URL like the host and port number which we were putting into application.properties properties right so we are providing some URL we are in our application in application.properties properties or here itself. Now with service discovery we don't need this only name with the name itself whatever the name we have provided for the application right which we want to talk like let's say product service then with this name itself the framework will you internally use discovery client fetch the instance use the load balancer pick a particular instance and invoke it all by the framework now we don't have to hardcode the URL All we just have to give the name which is used in the service discovery. Okay. So this look pretty simple right? Uh setting up a service discovery but in
