=== Set up of Eureka Client (747s - 971s) ===

application. Now so Ureka server is clear, right? How we can enable it? Ureka server, Ureka client application. So now let's say that order service I have we have different microservices like order service, product service and let's say that first they have to register themselves to the Ureka server. How they can register it? Okay. So now let's say that product service the first thing first we have to add a dependency. So here we are adding a dependency of a client ureka client spring cloud starter Netflix ureka client in the server we have added a dependency of the server one ureka server and here we are adding a dependency of ureka client and similarly its version I am living to this dependency management. Okay. Second thing application.properties. So I have set a port number, application name that it's a product service which I want to show into the dashboard also. Right now this three part very important. First thing is client register with ureka. Do you want to register this application with ureka? True. You don't even have to add it. By default these are true. But just for showing purpose that we these two things are important for the client. If you don't write these two then also it will work because by default these two are true only. Do you want to fetch the registry? True. So let's say that in your case if your scenario is that only you want to register you don't want to fetch you can make it false one also. Or you only want to fetch you don't want to register yourself then you can make this false. Okay. So you can play with this uh values but understand what's the purpose of this two configs and this one this one is also important that ureka client service URL default zone so here we have to provide the URL where this client will talk with this ureka okay so currently this ureka server is running on port number 8761 on the local host okay and that / ureka this is the default endpoint Okay. So this is we have to put into this config ureka client service url dot default zone. This is very important because without this your client won't be able to talk with the ureka server. So this is your server URL. Okay. So I started the product service. Now see the dashboard. Once you started the product service. Okay. You will see the same dashboard you will see product service. So product this is the service name we have given right in small. So here it shows capital letter product service and the address complete address like what is the instance ID port number URL status up or not. Okay. So our client is now registered with the product. Similarly for order service also we can do the same thing in the order service also you have to put the dependency in pom application.properties properties give it a order - service you need to tell the server uh ureka server URL and you can make it true if you want both the capability register it and the fetching both it and once you refresh it once you start the product order service will also come okay so now our server is set up and client is also set up means client application also registered themsel now let's see How order service can
