=== What is Service Discovery (Eureka Server and Client) (236s - 498s) ===

one of the way we can overcome all this limitation is our service discovery and there are uh different uh tools like Ureka or console. Okay. So I am covering URA which is like pretty much popular in the industry. So but you can also go with the console also the concept wise very much similarity. Okay. So if you understand one other you can easily grasp like what's going on. So in service discovery there are two parts server and client. So server act as a phone book. Okay has all the instances info of the registered client like service name, instance ID, IP, port number, health etc. So what is that is server server is the one which so this is the server server is the one which actually keeps the details of all the instances. So instance one details instance two details 3 4 5 all the different instances it keeps the detail only thing is only for the registered clients. So client have to register them. So if we have multiple clients client one, client two, client three, so they have to register with the server and then only it would be maintaining the data of it. We will see that how it is maintaining how they can register it. But just understand that for now that it is a phone book only for the registered client. So clients have to register and after that once it is registered then Eureka server you can consider as a phone book like if you want a particular details of a registered client you can get all the info that for this is the client these are the instances this is the IP address port number status up and down. So if this client has 10 instances all the details you can get it. Similarly, ura client most of the popular two operation client does is first register itself with the server that let's say if you have a client what you can do with the client first is register itself with the server that hey server maintain my instances and its info. Okay. Another is discover an instance. Let's say that if this client one needs the detail of client two like this client two has multiple instances. Okay. And this client two is also registered with the server means server is maintaining these all instances info. Now this client one need the details of client two. What it will do is discovers an instance. So it will ask the server that hey I want to talk to client two. Can you tell me the instances available? So server now since it's a phone book, it can return all the possible instances of client 2 which are up. Okay. So now see this diagram. This is going to be flow now. So now order service first get the list of a product service from the ureka. If it has to invoke the product service, ureka server will return the product service instances detail. If there are 10 instances of the product, it will return all the 10 details which are up. Okay. And after that it will order service is the one which choose a particular instance and then makes a call. Okay. So there is couple of things. This is very simplistic diagram. There are many things like cache comes into the picture so that it don't have to invoke the endpoint every time. There are lot of things we will see later but for now just understand that order service doesn't hardcode it. It will fetch the instances of the details product service details from the Ureka server. Ureka server return all the instances detail of a product service. Order service is the one which choose a particular instance or you are saying that it can do load balancing, choose a particular instance and invoke an endpoint.
