=== Question3, what if Eureka Server is down, is it a Single point failure? (1867s - 2201s) ===

Now what if Ureka server goes down itself? Is it a single point of failure? So now let's say we know that URA server is storing the data in memory. So I have this map. I have this map in memory. Right? Uka server. Now if this server goes down this all this infos goes away with it. Now if order service has to call the product service it will call this server. Will it be available? No. It's gone. It's down. So is it URA server is bringing a single point of failure in our application? No. So if you are using a single URA server then yes. But generally three nodes are used. Okay. It is used in a ureka server cluster. We create a URA server cluster. So three servers are running into different machine or container with different IP and port number. Okay. So on three different machine three ureka servers are running. Okay. And here each server is a client two. This is very important. So now let's say that you have a cluster of three ureka server. Server one server 2 server 3. Uka server 1 2 3. Now this server has to register itself to both this server. First it has to register right. Second it also has to take whatever the data present into S2. So it has to discover also. Okay. So means this server is also now becomes a client. So the same thing each server is a client two as they have to register themsel fetch the registry replicate the changes. So now let's say that your three servers which are running into three different uh machines. So configuration for them would be like let's say for server one would be application name port number your host name instance like on which uh port number it is running IP address okay now here if you see even for the server I am registering ureka doclient.registered with ureka true yes I want to register it also I am making it true ureka.client client do.fet registry true yes I want to fetch the details also so even though it is a server I am treating it as a client also okay so it's a client of whom so for its server would be these two server ureka server which is running on 8762 this one second ureka ureka 2 server and the ureka server which is running on 8763 this one so for this so this is a client for these two. So it registered itself with these two servers. Similarly, server two is also a client of server two now is a client of this and this. Okay. Similarly, server 3 is a client of one and two server. Okay. And in the client application.properties, properties earlier we were putting the default zone right we can say that hey we can put all three servers here so 1 2 3 okay that's all we have to do so here internally the ureka server internally whenever any let's say this is server one server 2 server three okay they have their maps all sync any new entry happen here let's say instance one certain detail it will update the detail here so it's eventual consistency it's not like always you will get like so let's say that the data present into server one instance detail so eventually it will also be present into s_ub_2 and eventually it will also be present into s3 okay but there is no guarantee that your client Now your client can request to anybody. Let's say that if your ureka server one is down, it can call ureka server 2 also. So there is no guarantee that the instance one detail which is pres present in s1 is properly sync up in s_ub_2. Eventually it will but there is no guarantee that let's say if request goes into s_ub_2 you will get the data. You might not not but if you retry you might okay because they keep on syncing up the data but there could be some delay and because of that if your request goes to server one you might see the data if it goes to server two you might not. So service discovery is a provide eventual consistency. Okay. So your client is now configured this three service discovery URLs. So if one server is down it will not impact the client availability now. So there is no single point of failure.
