=== Question4, Does for every API call, client need to call Eureka Server? (2201s - 2465s) ===

Can it cause a latency issue like earlier we were making a direct call from order service to product service. Now first uh I have to invoke ureka server and then make the actual call. No, Eureka server does not get called for every request. At application startup itself, the client let's say order service need to call to product service. So at CL application startup itself, it fetch the registry. We have set this right uh fetch the registry. So it will fetch everything from Ureka server at the time of application startup and it will put into its cache locally. Order service put into it cache locally. Now all the future call it will use this local copy only to find the instance. It will not call Ureka server and we can control this config like after how after how much seconds client will refresh it cache copy because now you have put this data into the cache. Okay. So the original data which is present into the server it might get changed certain instances from up changed to down or it got removed itself totally or new got added. How this cache copy get updated. So we can configure this ureka.client.registry registry fetch interval second whatever the second you will put after that much seconds it will update its cache copy okay so this is the client configuration and what if the local cache is stale can this lead to calling a dead instance possible right let's say that here instance one was marked as down so order service product service and let's say this is server and Here instance one is up and during application startup it maintain the copy instance one up but later on let's say that it has make it down instance one is down but let's say that this time is not yet happened it has not refreshed its copy yet you have given such a big time interval let's say I have given it as something let's say that something thousand. So I have given very big interval like or let's say 10,000 something like so it hasn't updated its copy cache copy. So it might got a stale. So even though this order service see that hey this instance one is up it will try to call but actually it's down. Okay. So you have to be very careful with this timing. If you keep it very less, if you keep it let's say this is order service, this is your ureka server. If you keep this let's say 1 second. So after 1 second, it will always make a call and keep on doing refresh refresh refresh refresh. Okay, that is also not good. If you keep it too large then you might get a stale data here and it might possible that you are in your cache copy it's showing up but actually it's down and when you try to call it ultimately fail. So it's a tradeoff. So you have to have a proper this number should come up with a proper that this cache copy should be updated in how much time so that you have always have the latest data also you don't keep on refreshing it as many as possible like we don't want that we want as minimum as possible refresh but still the data as fresh okay so do practice with your hand like uh but this is very very important topic it's widely used in the industry but I hope we can if you have any further doubt we can further discuss into the comment section but I hope uh it clarify lot of your doubts and it will give you a path forward like more you can jump into this topic like console you can further go into that one okay guys thank you bye
