=== RETRY using Route Specific filter in API Gateway (1826s - 2032s) ===

also exist. How to use it? Let's see. So again I am applying this uh retry filter onto our root0 which is for product service. So spring.cloud.gateway root0.tf filter0. So this is the first filter I am writing for this root name I have given is retry. Now you know what is the uh class name you will find into the framework. Retry gateway filter factory. So this is get appended automatically gateway filter factory. So if you open this class you will see what configuration it uses retry config. Retry config has multiple values. Some of them are like number of retries on which methods you want to retry on what status what should be the status when you want to retry. So I we have to provide values. So now I am providing the values. Spring.cloud.gateway root0 filter zero. Now ours means in this configuration whatever the config this class uses in that it this get mapped. So it has one field retries. So retries I am sending four time it should retry methods this field it should get retry for get and delete. So only these two I have set. So what would happen is for get and delete requests whenever there is a failure a retry will happen. So four means total attempt is four one is original call and after that three retry. So total four. Okay. Now we will do the testing. So in the product micros service controllers I have done like this just for testing purpose. Okay. So for the initial three times I am failing the call. I am failing the request and after that three call I am sending the success response. So now what happen is my retry count is four means total attempt is four. Out of total attempt three are failing but I want to make sure that my API gateway retry. So at least it should uh total there should be four calls. Okay. So fourth call should get passed. So now if you run this API gateway url product / one what will happen is you will see that fetch the product details on fourth attempt so fet the product detail on counter fourth attempt so first three was fail actually so on fourth it able to find so means our API gateway properly did the retry and we haven't written any code all we have provided the configuration all the code is already present We just give which pre-existing root filter we have to use and whatever the config it has we have to just tell assign the values whatever we want it okay also let's see circuit breaker how
