=== Ordering in Global and Route Specific filters (418s - 811s) ===

Okay. So this is the overall flow. So now here one question should have come to your mind is that hey sh I see that global filters are before the root specific filter also and global filters are after the root specific filter like why there is no no sequence right. So I if I understand correctly either it should be like all global filters first global filters and then root specific filters or all root specific filters and then global filters. Why there is a mix? Why global filters are before and after the root specific filter? What's the logic? So the answer for that is ordering in API gateway. Each filter whether it's a global or root specific is given an order. Okay. The maximum the minimum the order value means higher priority. Maximum order value means low priority. For example, if any filter has value minus1 and any filter has order value zero, then filter with order value minus1 will run before filter with order value zero. Okay. So generally most of the global filters are given lower value than root specific filters. Okay. So that's why global filters generally runs before the root specific filters. They are given lower value. But some global filters like root to request URL filter, native routing filters intentionally given higher value so that they execute last. Okay. So if you see the order value for these two global filters the order value is given very high. So for root to request the order value which is given is 10,000 and for native routing filter so that this should because this has to invoke the microser right so it has to be like after all the filters so that's why it gives lowest precedence lowest precedence means maximum value okay so it has the lowest precedence so means it should run last so its value would be very high order value would be very So that's why these two global filters comes very late in the filter chain. Okay. And generally global filters order values are smaller than root specific filters. So generally it runs before the root specific filters. Okay. So there are just like certain scenarios where for specific filters I want to run at last itself and now if you see the order value of native write response filter it's very less so means it this filter will be executed first in the chain okay so so here if you see this is the filter native write response filter let me zoom it a Okay, I hope it is visible. So here if you see for the native right response filter order is minus one. And if you see it's pre-f filter is empty nothing in pre-f filter. So means it directly invoke the next it directly invoke the next filter in the chain and then it has lot of code into its post operation. So generally what happening here is so when the request comes here so you can say that when the request actually comes here it also passes through. So actual if you see that it also passes through this but there is no in prefilter logic there is nothing okay so it just pass to the next filter in the chain and but during response in the post filter logic it has lot of logic and the logic is to pass the return the value to the client. Okay. So that's why its order value is minus1. So that it will execute early in the filter chain. Okay. So that during response its post operation post operation or you can say that post logic execute at last. Okay. Because it's going in the reverse direction. So the early filter its post operation will execute at last. And why it want to execute at last? Because we need to send the response to the client. So it should be the last operation. Okay. So I hope this flow is clear and why some global filters are before root specific and why some are uh after that is clear because this is very important ordering. Okay. And one more thing is what are the by default values. So for global filters if we do not define the order by default value is that the lowest precedence. Lowest precedence means uh it would be executed last. Okay. And for the root specific filters. So let's say you have created three root specific filter. So what it will do is it will just use index 0 1 2 like this. So you have three root specific filter. Right? So for the first filter root specific filter order would be zero for the next one it would be one and then two likewise it goes. So this is the default behavior. Okay. So I hope till this point of time we are clear what is global filter what is root specific filter at least. Okay. and the basic flow like how the basic flows in a API gateway happens and yes for sure about ordering now let's goes to the global filter
