=== Understanding of Pre-existing Route-Specific filters (1289s - 1826s) ===

filters. There are many pre-existing root specific filters available in SpringCloud gateway like add request header used to add a header to the request. Add response header used to add a header to the response. remove request header, remove response header like it's to remove a request header and used to remove a response header respectively. Retry used to retry the request on failure. We already have a filter for this request rate limiter used to apply rate limiting. We already again see we already have a pre-existing root specific filter for circuit breaker also we have it but how to use it now I'm going to tell you. So see how it works. So now we are using pre-existing root filters and later on we will create our custom root specific filter. So now see this is my product service root. Okay root0 and for this only I need to def for this root only for this root for this products root only I want to define the filter. Okay. So I'm defining filter. Now let's see what is happening. So I am so the just one example for the pre-existing. So one of the pre-existing is remove request header. Remove request header. So I how I am doing is spring.cloud.gateway.root0. So root0 means I want for this product services for root zero. Right? So the same dot filter zero. See I told you there can be many filters, many root specific filters. There can be many global filters. So filter zero, filter one, filter two, there can be many filters. So this is filter zero, this is filter one, this is filter two. So currently I'm writing filter zero. What is the name? Remove request header. So this is the name. What filter? So this is already present. This class is already present. This filter class is already present. So we are you can say that we are giving a class name and then there is something called if this required certain configuration dynamic configuration okay certain fields are there we where we can define dynamic values so generally it given like this spring.cloud.gateway root0 filter zero dot ars dot name. So understand now with this. So if you see the framework you will see a class remove request header gateway filter factory. So we just gateway filter factory you can say that is get appended. Okay. And before that whatever it is that is our actual class name we give in the application.properties properties it automatically append gateway filter factory while doing the mapping. Okay, we we don't have to give this gateway filter factory. So if you open the class remove request header gateway filter factory this will get open. So name is clear like what name we have to give. Okay. Second thing if you see this in this class it extend a abstract gateway filter factory and there we have defined one not we this framework has defined one config name config. So if you see the name config it has one field name. So that field value what is the value? We can add it here. We can define it like this. Okay. Dot args argument dot ask dot this field name name whatever the field name we want to give. So see this filter task is to remove the header. So it required a name. What header name I have to remove? which header give me the name then only I can remove right so I need certain input dynamically through configuration so that's why this configurations is mainly used to define fields which value we can configure it dynamically through configuration so whatever the name I can provide through configuration like this root0 filter0 okay for this filter I'm working on this filter right and This filter uses this config. Okay. So, and this config value has only name. So, that's why name and I provided this. So, what happen is inside this apply it uses this config name config. Now if you see what it does from exchange it takes out the request it take out the header and it remove this name whatever we have provided. So it's a dynamic whatever the value we will give in the configuration that will get removed and then it goes to the next filter chain. Okay. So this is just one example. Don't worry we will see more like it will get clarifies how the root specific filter works. Now let's see an example with multiple root specific filters like currently I showed one. So let's say I want two three filters. So see I have filter zero. Okay add request header. I want to add a header. So first thing when you want a header definitely it required let's say name and value. So header has two thing what is the header name? What is the value? So if you see the name so these are all pre-existing we are talking about okay we are not creating any class now we have just used this configuration. We are just using this filters root specific filters in our config. So I am applying this add a request header. Now the filter name is dot name add request header. So what is the class name might be present add request header gateway filter factory. So if you see you will see this class present into the framework. So this in framework this class is present. Now here if you see this class is using this config name value config. So it has two parameter name and value. Now we need to dynamically uh tell the value right? What is the name of the header? What is the value? Okay. And then we can add it through config. So same thing root0 filter zero dot ars. Now with this dot ask means we have we are going to assign value to its field. The first field is name give the header name and then dot value give the value. Similarly for the response header. Okay. So what is the name of the response header? Add response header. If you go in the framework you will see add response header. So here if you see if I search add response header gateway filter factory. Okay. So what is the config? It takes name value config and name value config is name and value. So the same thing filter one. So now this is my filter one ars.name name. This is in the response. Add this header name and the value add this. Okay. Similarly, remove we have already seen you want to remove a particular header from a request. It only require a name. So only one field. Now if you see the hitter request and see the response response header. So in the response header you see this it got added X test response header API gateway response. So this is the header name this is the header value got appended. Okay. So these are all the filters which already exist. We just want to use it. Similarly retry root specific filter
