=== Request Lifecycle in API Gateway (126s - 418s) ===

So before we proceed further on the global filters and root specific filters this flow we need to understand properly. Okay this is the overall flow when a request comes to API gateway and its complete life cycle. So now let's say the client hit the request localhost 8083 / products /1. So this is our 8083 is our API gateway port number. The request first goes to dispatcher handlet dispatcher handler. Okay. After that it pass it to route mapping handler. So what route mapping handler do is it based on this route / products it looks in our application.properties properties we define the routes right route zero route one so route zero is for product route one is for orders and some certain configuration so based on the route let's say / products it define which config to use like I so uh client hit / products right so it would use / product/est so it would use this route route zero okay so it will create a route object. After that there could be one there could be many global filters. For each global filter a prefilter logic will run after that it invokes the next next filter in the chain. So that you can consider this as a chain of filters. Okay. So first the pref filter logic you can say that pre-logic runs after that it invokes the next filter. So the next filter of global filter will get invoked. If there are no more global filters it will invoke the root specific filters. Again there can be many root specific filters and for each filter there could be pre-logic and post logic. So first it runs the pre-logic and after running the pre-logic it invokes the next filter in the chain. So again the next filter could be root or next filter could be your again global filter also. So now what happen in this there is a one global filter called root to request URL filter. What it will do is whatever the path we are getting let's say / product / one we have to create a proper endpoint right callable endpoint because we are invoking it with the API gateway uh URL right localhost 80083 and based on this root we have to create a endpoint so currently our URI is load balancer so internally it has to call service discovery then it do load balancing and then take out a one particular instance. So that is all done by by this filter which is a global filter and then this ultimately pass to another global filter which is neti routing filter. It task is to actually invoke the micros service and finally the micros service return the response and this neti routing filter which is a global filter it goes back to the root specific filter okay and from there it will run it's the post filter logic so understand from this you have a pre-logic then you have like next and then post logic. So this is the same code. Okay. So pre-logic run then in the next it invokes another filter that task is completed. It control goes back here and then it runs the post logic. So the same thing. Okay. So it control goes back and then it run the post filter logic. So if you have multiple root specific filters. So now all their post filter logic will run. After that when all finish it the control goes back to the global filter this one and from there it will now run its post filter logic. Okay. After that all this finish it runs one global filter at last which is netty writer response filter. Its task is to forward the response to the client.
