=== Implementation of Custom Route Specific filter (2394s - 2575s) ===

Now the last thing is okay Shange how to write our custom root specific filter. Now I have already seen how the pre-existing root filter works but how to write my own custom root. So very very simple. So here if you see I have root see this one I have given the name class name custom root gateway filter factory. So you know that in the pom uh not in the pom. So this is our application dotproperties not pom.xml. So whatever the filter what what's the filter name would be this one custom rate root gateway filter factor would not come here it will automatically get appended during mapping. Okay. So I have created a class annotated with component. I want to get it managed through spring boot extend abstract gateway filter factory. And see I have provided one config. In this class I have created one custom config this class. I have created one custom config class. So I have told that my this class which I'm writing it will use this config and in this config I have so this is just for testing purpose. So I have just provided one field string country that's all. So you know that now to fill the value of this root zero filter whatever the if is the fifth filter let's say there are already filter zero filter one filter two filter three filter four. So this is the fifth filter in the chain dot asks. So for this class in this config which it use whatever the field name would be I can use it country and I can provide any value which I wanted dynamically. So I put India. Now what would happen is when this apply will run. Okay. So here in this one I can provide our pre-logic system.r print element I whatever the pre-logic you wanted you can use that and it has this custom config okay as an argument which we can use it like this once the pre-logic is done okay you can call the next filter in the chain so I'm just calling chain dot filter xchain so means next filter got invoke and after that my post filter logic Okay. And that's all done. If you run the application and hit an API, you will see that my prefilter logic, the value India which I provided got printed and after that post filter runs also. So this is how simple to
