=== CircuitBreaker using Route Specific filter in API Gateway (2032s - 2394s) ===

circuit breaker we can uh make use of in API gateway but if you have any doubt with the circuit breaker kindly check it out okay uh then it will get more clarified like what is closed state, what is open state, what is half open state. So first thing first in pom.xml we have to add a dependency for the resilience 4j. So circuit breaker is used like in within the resilience so resilience 4j provide a circuit breaker capability. Okay. So that's why we need this dependency. And if you have uh seen my previous video of the fall tolerance, you might know that hey shash retry also functionalities provided by resilience 4j, right? Yes. But here in the API gateway don't make use of resilience 4j. It don't make use of resilience 4j. It has their own uh logic buildup. Okay. So first thing first is we need the resilience 4j dependency now here in the application.properties properties what we are doing it see this again this is our product service root and now we are writing the filter so this is my first filter for the circuit breaker I'm writing for this route root zero filter zero what is the name circuit breaker so you know right what would be the class name circuit breaker you can this will get appended automatically gateway filter factory on java Okay. And now here if you see the configuration it which uses it has one name. So I am telling ARS dot name and this name is what? This name is your circuit breaker config. So if you have seen this video you know that what are the configurations we have to provide. Okay. like how many uh like threshold value what is the threshold value and once it goes into the open state for how much second it has to be in there okay what sliding window type it has to use all this thing we have seen already in the previous video so the same configuration we provide and this is our circuit breaker name you can say that just a name we have given our circuit breaker name. So in this name we provide this value actually my circuit breaker name whatever the name you want to give you can provide uh give that name but use it here. So what exactly it will do is our filter ultimately use the configurations value from this the here then whatever the uh circuit breaker config name we have provided here. So it will start reading the values from here and you if you also remember that it there is also a fallback logic whenever a request fails it also fall backs. So that's why it has another field into its config dot rfallback and we provide this forward colon/ your it actually a path. So here if you see I have written one controller inside an API gateway itself. So this is a controller I have given /f fallback and written a service is temporarily unable like how I want to handle. So the same thing you have to give here that fallback URI forward col/ means it's an internal call means it is within API gateway itself. There is no external call to any microser. No, it's a internal call. So that's why it just forward col/ it's tell to the API gateway it's an internal call. /f fallback is the end point which it has to invoke. Okay. So this is how circuit breaker happen like so for testing what happened is the same thing what I did previously in the previous circuit breaker video. I did not start the product micros service server itself. So I have given like threshold 50. 50% is my threshold. Out of 10 calls if five failed then means circuit should get open. So that's what I did. I called multiple times more than five times. So threshold will get crossed. Okay. And what would happen is you will see the fallback message services temporarily unavailable. And if you check the locks, you will see that the transition state transition happen from close to open. Okay. Now it will wait for 10 second in open and then it will move back to automatically half open. Okay. So all the filters are already present. Similarly for the rate limiter also the exist filter already exists all we have to use it like this like how we are using. So provide a filter name and this filter name would be you can know that from the class you can take out the prefix and then if it required if it is using some config just check out that config like is they have any uh name fields okay and those fields value we can provide dynamically like this dot asks dot field name and then value.
