=== Implementation of Custom Global Filter to do JWT Authentication (811s - 1289s) ===

first we know that there are so many already pre-existing global filters present like root to return URL filter this is a global filter I I already told you what its task is. Native routing filter. It task is to invoke. So this is also a global filter. It's applied to all the requests no matter what. Similarly, native writer response filter. This is also a global filter. It task is to uh return the value to the client, send the response to the client. So there are already so many global filters. But what it takes to write our own custom global filter? Let's say I want to do it for authentication like JWT. Okay. And I want it for my all requests. So that's why I want to put do this authentication into the global filters. I want it applicable for all the requests. So see so J I created one class JWT O global filter annotated with add the component because I want to get it managed by spring boot implements global filter and ordered I told you that every filter whether it's a root root specific or whether it's a global filter it's ordered like order value is given If we don't give it by default it would be given. Okay. Because we want control like okay authentication should be run before authentication should be run before any other filter in the chain. So that's why I want the control so that I will give the order. Okay. So I need to implement global filter and also the ordered. So here if you see in the ordered one I give minus one lower value means higher priority. So it would be it would be run early in the filter chain I give some negative number. Okay. Now in the global filter we have to override this filter method. Now in this exchange this exchange represent the request and response and this chain is like the filter chain a filters chain of filters. Okay. So first now this is all our JWT token verification logic. Okay. So I have take out a path exchange.get get request get URI get path I got a path if the path is / I don't want to do any verification because this is the time when user has to create the token and a uh API gateway do not create token it only verifies it for creation of the token responsibility should be some one of the microservers okay so if the endpoint is / it just call the next filter in the chain pass through. Okay. But if this is not the endpoint then for rest all other request I want to validate the token. So from the request header I take out the authorization header. If authorization header is null means token is missing. So I'm saying unauthorized. Else I take out the token from the header. authorization header. Now your verification logic will come here. So I have already created JWT authentication video. Okay. Uh in the spring boot series if you haven't watch out kindly check it out because how to verify how to create the token how to verify the token I have already discussed in there one. Okay. So your verify JWT token logic will come at this place. Let's say if the verification fails then the exception it will catch and we will say unauthorized. So response I will set unauthorized and I will mark the complete. Okay, I will not proceed further. I will make it request complete. But if the token is valid then I am doing chain dot filter exchange. So means I am passing the request further in the chain. to the next filter in the chain. Okay. Now here if you see I also added the post filter. So you have a pref filter prefilter logic. So what is my pre-f filter logic here? This before chain before I pass the request to the next filter in the chain. Everything is my prefilter. Then at this point of time I pass the request to next filter. Okay. After that I need a post logic. So this is how we write a post logic. Okay. So then mono do from runnable and inside this this is an you can say that an executable. So the your all the logic whatever the post operation logic you want put it inside this one. Okay don't worry about this mono from runnable this is actually a spring cloud gateway internally uses reactive programming. Okay and we will see that into when we will start with the spring web flux. Okay so just understand that for now uh so that we have certain basic what exactly happen here. chain.filter exchange do not pass the request to the next filter synchronously. No, it passed the request asynchronously. And when it pass the request asynchronously, okay, and if you write the post filter, it will automatically get executed. It will not even wait for the chain to complete properly micros service to get execute and when the response come then only post will get executed right it will not wait since it is in a synchronous internally do a synchronously it will directly goes to the post and completed and move ahead so that's where so we just put then mono from runnable we are saying that once this asynchronous is completed Okay. And when the response comes then only perform this post filter logic. Don't do it now. Okay. So this is our global filter. This is how we write it. Very very simple. Nothing else like you just have to provide an order. You have to implement global filter. And in this filter method write your pre-logic filter logic. call the next filter in the chain and then write your post logic. Okay. And in the pre-logic I am doing the authentication here. Okay. Do check out W uh JWT authentication. You will get clarified how this verify JWT token logic need to be. Okay. It's very very simple. So I don't want to do it now otherwise uh it would like uh go into totally what I have covered here. Okay. Then the next is root specific
