=== Implementation (453s - 1324s) ===

It's very easy. So we have already seen that we don't need uh individual dependency of circuit breaker. It's all come with the resilience 4j itself. So we already have that dependency added as part of previous u retry and all. So this pom.xml we need to add this resilience 4j dependency. This is the same no change it's just a controller class to expose an API through which we can invoke this order service uh method and this is a f client like no change it's like uh we are using ureka server so that's why I haven't provided any URL right so that's already we have seen in the previous one. So there is no change here. Now in the order service we have a method right it is invoking the order service method invoke product API. So this is actually where I am invoking the downstream product. So now at top of it I have put this circuit breaker. So I have given it a name. This is the name product service and this is the fallback method. So this is the fallback method. Remember that this fallback method always get invoked for each failure attempt. Okay. So whenever you are not able to invoke this product service, this fallback method get invoked. Okay. So this is one thing we have to add a circuit breaker annotation and this is the configuration we have to add in application.properties. So this is very important. So understand this configuration uh properly that why we need this many. So the first thing is resilience 4j.tcircuit breaker.instance. This is the name we have given product service. Now see the first one is sliding window type and the second one is sliding window size. So both are associated. So here if you see that when you are choosing the count based as the window type and the size what does it means is it will track the n number of recent call. So here it will track the 10 recent calls and based on that it will find out whether there is any failure or not. So this is helpful when you are currently in a closed state. So when you are in a closed state and means all calls are allowed and you have to identify whether a threshold has been crossed or not. Okay. So there should be some window on which some request comes which could be success which could be failure which could be success which could be failure. Right? So this window size is this. Okay. So window size is this and I am using countbas. So count based means 10 calls. So use the last 10 calls. Okay. There another is time based. So it's not call then 10 second. In 10 second how whatever the call it could be 10 20 100 doesn't matter. Now it's a time base. So it's a time base. What is the size? 10 second. So in 10 seconds whatever the call is there right some call could be success some call could be failure now based on that we will find out whether the threshold has been crossed or not. So first we have to determine the window. So this is helping us to determine our window. Okay never get confused it with like uh rate limiter sliding windows and all right it is totally different. This is count based means when we are giving a 10 so means 10 calls last 10 calls we have to consider and based on that we will find out a threshold value okay so first two is clear then is minimum number of calls so minimum number of calls so see why we required is let's say uh we have only two calls let's say count based and And the window size you have given two say suppose or even if you are using time based 10 second in the 10 second you only got two calls and your threshold is let's say hey 50% of the traffic is fail then consider it as a failure but here when there is only two calls and what does 50% means only one even if there is one failure now you will consider that hey product service is down is it is it not a false positive Right? It's a false alarm. Only one request fails, it could be because of like uh if you retry it might pass. Okay? So when the number is very low then there is a chance that there is a false positive. Okay. So that's why minimum number of calls says that hey when this number of calls reach then only start evaluating the failure rate. Okay so minimum at least this many calls should be present then only after that start evaluating the failure. Okay. Then another is failure rate threshold. This is percentage. So circuit moves to open state once the threshold limit reach. So if 50% of the traffic is a failure in a window in this window in this window if 50% of the traffic failed then it move from closed to open state. Then another is wait duration in open state. So once the circuit moves to open state how much time it has to wait. Okay before it move to half open. So 10 second it has to stay in the open state before it move to half open state. Now once the circuit move to the half open state then it has to try some calls. Okay. How many? So I have told three calls. So permitted number of calls in half open state is three. So means it will call three times. It will allow three calls to go to the downstream and then it will evaluate the success rate. Okay. So these are all the configurations uh which is important and we will see with an uh output also that would be a little bit more clear and also this is also important that by default circuit breaker record all runtime exception and error as a failure. If you don't specify anything all runtime exception and error it will track. But if you want this control in your hand you can use this two configuration. One is record exception. Another is ignore exception. So it's a commaepparated value you can give that what all the exception you only have to track. Okay. And what all exceptions you have to ignore. So this way you can have more control over it. Otherwise if you don't give it it will take care of all the runtime exceptions and error. Okay. So this is the very minimal code you required for the circuit breaker to work. Okay, only configurations and this circuit breaker annotation. Now with this configuration just check this output. Okay, so we can also run it in the intelligent but here we'll show you once then I will run in the intelligent. So first time I hit so this is the first call I made. What I did is order service is calling the product service and the product server I haven't started it. So no matter how many times order will try to invoke product it will always fail. So that's the uh use case I am going to test now with the above configurations. So let me zoom it a bit. So I made a first hit. I try to invoke this endpoint this endpoint. So this endpoint it will uh invoke this method invoke product API. Invoke product API will call get product by ID but the product server itself I haven't started it. So definitely it will fail. Okay. So it tried first time see it reached till it tried to hit it tried to find an instance of a product service but since it is not a load balancer not able to find the instance. So first call I made it got failed and it print this fallback method system.out.print which I am printing. Now what is how many is the failure count? One. What is the minimum count we have sent? Minimum call should be five. Till that don't even start counting the failure. The window size we have is 10. Threshold is 50. So 50 of a window size means five failure is a threshold. Once the five failure has been reached in a window, it will move to the open state. But till now failure is only one. Then I make a second call. Second call is also failed. Failure count is now two but minimum is five. Window is 10. Threshold is five. Third call is also failed. Again no issues. It is still in closed state. It is actually hitting try to hit the downstream but failure count is three. Minimum call is five. Window size is 10. Threshold is 50% of window size that is five. Fourth call is again it tried to go to the downstream. Fifth call. So now what if if you see that fifth call is also failed. So here if you see not able to invoke the product service. So it also tried to hit the downstream. fifth. Now the failure count is five. Now here if you see the minimum call now it is matched. So now the minimum call is matched. Now it will see hey in this window mine is count based right 10. So its threshold was 50%. So five failure if there is a five failure then it would be considered as like a threshold cross. So my failure count is five and the threshold is five and the window size is 10. Okay. So in the last within last 10 calls. So till till now the first five call itself got failed. So it's within a window and threshold is crossed. So see now it move from closed to open state. It change circuit breaker change the state and here after 10 second we have configured that right what is the wait time in the open 10 second we have configured that so here if you see after 10 second from 20 now after 10 second 30 it automatically change from open to half open so how automatically after a specific time it automatically change from open to half open I will tell you uh later in this uh video itself Okay. So here if you see like after exactly 10 seconds whatever we have configured the status changed from open to half open. Now after that I again so in half open how many permitted calls we have given three. So now I made a first trial call. Okay. So this is the maximum trial call we have set is three. So first trial call is also failed but it tried to invoke the load balancer. So means it is tried to invoke the downstream. The second call also it tried to invoke the downstream but that is also failed. The third trial also it got failed where it tried to invoke the downstream but now our limit is reach the third. So from half open it will go back to open again because all three failed success rate is zero. Okay. So only in case of 100% success rate it move back to close. Okay. So it goes from half open to open because success rate is not 100%. So here if you see the we all know that resilience 4j uses a we till now we have seen. So AOP intercept this add the red circuit breaker uh annotation and it pass to this class circuit breaker state machine on Java. This is a framework which is available in resilience 4j. So open this class check it out. So this is just one sample method in this class. Okay. So here if you see that depending upon which state you are at. So let's say currently I am at closed state. Okay. At closed state you are making one call to downstream and if any error comes so it this method get invoked. So for every error every exception it check does it exceed the threshold. Okay if it exceed the threshold yes and it is closed state move to open now. So if yes threshold exceeded and it is in closed then move to open. So for every failure it checks this kind of method right and based on particular state it move to another state. So open this class put a debugger point you can check it out and you will get to know that how it move from one state to another. But one question might be coming to you
