=== How automatically it changes the State? DelayQueue (1324s - 1819s) ===

right. Okay, for every failure call we are checking if a state need to be changed or not. That makes sense, right? I make a call got failed. I am tracking what is the threshold value. I do computation and if the threshold crossed, I change the state from close to open. Right? And even from half open if I am at half open if the trial all trial I make a call and based on that I will evaluate if it all 100% I will go back to closed or half open or open but one open question is when my state isn't currently open then how after a specific weight let's say 10 second It automatically moves to half open state. How how does it change from open to half open? Okay. So the answer is it uses scheduled threadpool executor. So if you see the circuit breaker state machine on Java itself the same class there you will find an open state method. So method for open state. So in that you will see okay. So schedule threadpull executor it schedule a task means it will submit a task to a scheduleuler to this executor and this is the task it submit. What is the task it is submitting to half open state means transition from open to half open after what time? This is the delay wait duration let's say 10 it time unit is in millisecond let's say after 10 millisecond change from open to half open. So this is the task which need to be run after this much time. So scheduled threadpull exeutor with the usage of this scheduled threadpool executor we can change or we can perform certain task after a particular delay and I have already explained the schedule thread pool executor in the Java playlist. You can check it out how to use it. But in interview uh one level more deep information is useful because interviewer can ask okay with the usage of schedule threadpull executor I can perform this task but how this internally works. How does schedule threadpull executor works? So schedule thread pool executor actually make use of delayed Q. So consider this as a Q where whenever we put schedule right. So here I am putting dot schedule uh schedule executor service dot schedule. So this task is now handed over to this Q delayed Q which is known as delayed Q. So the task with the minimum delay is always at the head. Minimum delay means the task which will get expired first like uh this task will run after 1 second. This task will run task two will get run after uh 10 seconds. So you can uh say that the task which is going to run very next is always at the head. Okay. So which data structure we can use to implement this delete Q is priority Q. We can make use of priority Q and sort based on this minimum delay time. Whichever task has the very minimum delay time, it should be at the head because this delay is going to expire early so that this task would be ready to get executed first. Okay. So one thing is delayed queue. Another thing is we have a worker thread. We have a worker thread. So whenever the schedule thread pool executor we are creating an object of this one, we also tell how many worker thread we want it which will work on this executor. Okay. So now what happen is let's say assume that in this delayed queue this is our task one which has let's say 10 second is still time remaining before it delay get expired and the task one is ready to get executed. Now let's say thread one look at the head. Hey can I pick this task? Are you ready? Okay, so each available worker thread will look at the head of the delayed queue. If the task delay is not yet expired, so there is still 10 second left. Okay, it should not be executed now. Then what this thread will do? This thread will go in a block state. Okay, then thread will wait go into block state for how much time? For the same amount of time. So it will check okay this task will ready after 10 second. So let me also block for 10 second. It will go in a wait state for 10 second. After the 10 second the OS wake up the thread. OS wake up the thread after this 10 second after this. So this whatever the delay is remaining right for the same remaining delay time this thread will go into the uh wait state block state and OS will wake it up after that much time and after that much time this thread will also be ready. uh this task is also ready to get executed. Okay. So this thread now will go and pick the task from the head and start executing it. Now other thread will start looking at the next task in the delayed queue. There could be multiple tasks. Task two, task three, task four. So now other threads will start looking at the next uh task which is present into the delay cube. If that task is not yet ready then thread will again get blocked. Okay. So it is possible that multiple threads which are available is looking at the head and all let's say thread one thread 2 thread three all are looking at this head task one which has 10 second to still delay time is present. So multiple thread look that hey can I pick the task because all threads are available. they have to look at the queue to see if any task is present so that they can pick it up. So now this task has still 10 seconds uh delay time present. So what this thread will do this thread can't do anything. Okay. So they all goes to wait and I told you that how much time the same amount of time the remaining delay time they will all goes to wait or block state then OS will invoke it and out of that only one will go and pick this task. So you can say that that is your uh lock one of the task one of the thread will use the lock and pick this task and then remaining thread will now start looking at the next item present into the delay Q. If that task is still not ready then again those thread will wait for the remaining delay time and it will be in the wait state till the task is ready. I hope if interviewer ask you about how
