=== Why we need Circuit Breaker? Problem identification (15s - 204s) ===

What does circuit breaker says? This pattern prevents an application to make repeated calls to downstream service that is likely to fail. Okay. So we'll come to this line again but see this diagram. So let's say our application is order service right and we and this product is a downstream. So order is invoking product for now assume that this product service is unavailable. So no matter how many times you call this call will fail. Right? So product service is down. No matter how many times whether you are doing a retry of the same call or whether you are making a totally different call it will fail. So there is some disadvantages for it. The first disadvantage is we put unnecessarily add load to the product service and because of that product service might take longer time to recover. So see product service is already unavailable right it is facing some issue and we are adding more load to it. So there is a chance that product service might take little longer time to uh come up in the healthy state. The second is order service is unnecessarily wasting it resources both latency and the thread blocking. So just see that if let's say there are thousands and thousands of calls and product service is unavailable they all will fail. So order service is unnecessarily wasting its resource because there is a latency involved. It calls it it wait for the product service to response till time out and then only it will send to the client that hey it's a fail some 5xx error something okay so there is definitely increase in the latency and you are unnecessarily blocking your thread on this call okay so there is no need because even if you wait it the call is likely going to fail because the product service is unavailable But now what's the solution? How does order service know when to stop the downstream call? like we are saying that hey order don't make unnecessarily call to product because it is unavailable right but how order knows that when it is unavailable when it is up and when I have okay if it is unavailable when again I have to restart so something has to instruct this uh you can say that knowledge somebody has to put this knowledge to order right then only order would be able to stop or restart the call. So who add that knowledge that is circuit breaker.
