=== Transaction Coordinator and __transaction_state topic (667s - 1134s) ===

transaction coordinator. The transaction coordinator is nothing but the brain of transaction. This is the one who actually manage transaction, you can say, in Kafka, transaction coordinator. Now, what is transaction coordinator? It is nothing very very similar to consumer, you can say that consumer coordinator, right? In that we have. Very similar. Let's say you have three brokers, broker one, broker two, broker three. Just one broker perform this which perform this manage transaction also. That broker you can say that known as transaction coordinator. You can say that. But now, let's go one level more deeper about this. There is a topic __ __ transaction __ state. Okay? __ __ two __ transaction __ state. This is the topic. Okay, this is the topic name, which is internally created. Okay, which is internally created by Kafka. And this topic has 50 partitions. 50 partitions. Okay? And this 50 partition is divided among different brokers. Okay? Let's say one partition one to partition 10 hold by broker one, partition 11 to partition 30 is hold by broker two, partition 31 to partition 50 is hold by broker three. Assume that. Okay? So, each broker is the leader of certain partition of this topic __ __ transaction __ state. Now, what our producer application do? Producer in the step one, we have assigned the transaction ID. So, what it does is and this transaction ID is unique for the producer. Okay? So, for this transaction ID, what it does is it compute hash, hash of transaction ID mod 50. Now, let's say you got 23. So, this partition 23 of this topic __ __ transaction __ state. Okay? So, this topic partition 23 Okay, let's say this is the one, partition 23. So, broker two known as the transaction coordinator for this producer. Okay? So, for this producer with transaction ID this one for which this partition is computed. So, no matter what, whatever the transaction history or metadata information for this producer is stored in this partition and this partition is belongs to this broker. So, this broker is known as the transaction coordinator. Very very similar concept to in the consumer we have uh coordinator, right? The very very similar top concept here in the transaction. So, let's go through this. So, we have this topic transaction __ state topics hold transaction related information. Considered as the brain of transaction. Okay? This topic has 50 partition. These partition are divided among different brokers, I told you. Okay? So, very similar. Let's say partition zero till partition 49. So, total 50 partition for this topic and divided among brokers, different brokers. So, particular producer transaction goes to specific partition topic only. Okay? So, the same concept. For this producer with transaction, let's say T1, this producer has transaction ID T1. So, when you do hash of T1, you will get a specific partition. Okay? So, for this producer, all the transaction related information goes into this partition only. That's what this line says. So, for example, producer transaction ID is order hyphen serve hyphen zero. So, partition calculation would be hash of this topic this transaction ID mod 50. So, you got partition 23. So, the leader of partition 23 of topic is broker two, let's say. Here, partition 23 leader is broker two, let's say. So, for this producer, for this transaction ID, you got partition 23 and this partition 23 of this topic the leader is broker two. So, broker two is considered as the transaction coordinator for the producer with transaction ID this one. Transaction coordinator concept is clear? Which like which broker is considered as the transaction transaction coordinator? Okay? So, this can be a transaction coordinator for a specific producer whose transaction or the partition which comes is among this, managed by this broker. Similarly, broker two considered as the transaction coordinator for producer Okay? Whose transactions goes into partition which is the leader of which is the leader broker two is the leader. Similarly, broker three can also be a transaction coordinator for producers their transaction for which their transaction goes into partition for which broker three is the leader. I hope concept of transaction coordinator is clear and also the transaction is state. We are going to get one level more deeper because what data is stored inside it, that also matters. So, first understand [snorts] till this. So, we have a producer. The first step we did is assigned a transaction ID to it. Let's say I assigned this order hyphen serve hyphen zero. Assume that I have only one producer. So, that's why I can give like this. Okay? So, this producer assigned itself for transaction ID. Now, I am doing a step of find the coordinator. Only once it happens. Okay? So, what happened is it send the find coordinator request to any broker, to any broker. And it will pass its transaction ID. Hey, this is my transaction ID. Find me the transaction coordinator. Now, what any broker, either B1 or B2 or B3, out of any broker get this request, it perform hash of transaction ID which is sent here mod 50 because there are total 50 partition. Whatever the partition number came, this broker will check who is the leader of this partition of topic __ __ state. So, let's say it come broker two is the leader for this partition of this transaction state topic. So, it will say that, "Hey, your coordinator is broker two." Okay? So, till here we have covered step two, find the coordinator. So, I hope this step is clear. Now, let's proceed further.
