=== Zombie Fencing (1782s - 2068s) ===

Very important again initially we have kept it like we will see it later. Now, let's see it. Now, understand that. What is zombie fencing? Let's say you have a producer one. It give itself transaction ID. Okay? And it send the hey, give me the producer ID request. And it got that hey, this is the producer ID. Epoch is zero currently all empty something written and it return. Producer ID is five, epoch is zero. And it start the transaction, let's say. It start the trans- transaction and it is touching multiple topics partitions. So, let's say it has some record. Producer ID is five. Epoch is zero. State is ongoing. These are all the partition it is touching. Let have So, don't worry about this what all happening. Understand the intention. So, producer one has started the transaction. So, it is ongoing. But after because of some network issue, there is some pause happen. Network pause happen. So, maybe if you are using Kubernetes, it auto span new pod with the same transaction ID, let's say. So, now you got a producer ID but with the same transaction ID T1. So, what it will do is it will send this request. Okay? It will send this request. So, currently you have this row present. Okay, PID five epoch zero. So, when the new request come, what transaction coordinator will say that, hey, there is already a mapping present for this T1. Okay? So, what it will do is first, it will whatever the ongoing, it will abort it. It will abort it. Okay? After that, it will increase the epoch version. Okay? It will increase the epoch version. Now, it become one. Okay? And then it will reset everything. The state is now empty. Partition involved empty. Whatever the timeout default, it will set it. Okay? And it will return. Producer ID is five. But now the version is one. Because this is a new producer but the same transaction ID pass. So, every time this PID call request comes, it just increase the epoch version. Because the T1 is already exist, it just increase the epoch version. And with the previous epoch previous version, if there is anything about if anything is ongoing open, it will abort it first. So, that happened. But now, let's say somehow this old producer one get revived. Now, earlier for it, everything was like ongoing. Now, it let's say want to commit. Hey, commit. I am So, this is my transaction ID. My producer ID was five and version is zero. So, now it will check transaction coordinator that okay, this transaction ID okay, producer ID five okay. Version epoch is zero. Hey, but currently I have one. Means this is zombie. Means previously it marked as considered this producer might be inactive. So, new producer has taken its place. But somehow this old producer is coming back. So, it fence it. It throws producer fence exception. Okay? Because when the new init producer ID request come, it already whatever it's ongoing was it already aborted it. It make everything set reset again and state empty, partition empty, increase the version. Okay? Everything. Now, if come with the old epoch, so it considered as a zombie. So, now it will fence it. It will stop it. Hey, you are old. Okay? For me, you do not exist. For me, I will only entertain PID with epoch one now. You got it zombie fencing? So, advantage of storing information like this epoch, right? It also helps in zombie fencing. Many time what happened is old producer somehow come back, send the request. So, those will not get passed through.
