=== Internal of __Transaction_state topic PID and Epoch (1134s - 1782s) ===

The step three, get the producer ID and version. Again, producer ID concept of idempotency. Okay? So, why producer ID is required? You can get more information in idempotency video also. But, when we enable transaction, transaction also enable idempotency. Okay? So, we don't have to specifically say that idempotency equals to true. If you have enabled that transaction, idempotency will also get true. Okay? So, means when idempotency is get true, you need a PID, producer ID. Okay? So, our next step is get the producer ID and version. So, that's what I have written. When we use transaction in Kafka, internally it also enables idempotency and idempotency need producer ID. Check this out video idempotency if you have any doubt. But now let's see this flow. What happens? So till now step two flow is clear. So assume that it all happening in continuity. Okay? So I'm just going step by step. So till step till coordinator have been done. After that what it does, it do get producer ID. Again, this happens only once, not again and again. Okay? So it says that hey, it send a request. Now to whom? To the transaction coordinator. In the step one it already knows which broker is my transaction coordinator. Now it directly send the request initialize init producer ID request and it passes transaction ID. Hey, this is my transaction ID. Give me the producer ID. So what transaction coordinator? The leader of transaction underscore state topic of partition 23. Because that's what it got for its transaction ID. It got partition 23 and partition 23 leader is broker two. So broker two is transaction coordinator. So this is nothing but a broker two, but this act as a transaction coordinator for this producer. Okay? So it ask the transaction coordinator, hey, return me the producer ID. So what transaction coordinator will do? I told you it manage this topic. So it write in this topic underscore underscore transaction underscore state and this partition 23. Because this transaction coordinator is the leader of this partition. Okay? So it write transaction ID this producer ID I am generating let's say generate five. Epoch zero state empty partition involved currently empty. For each one I will tell you what does it mean. But first thing understand that the very big disadvantage of in the idempotency, you know that when the PID was generated, nowhere it is stored. So when the application restart, it generate a new PID and return to the producer. But now here in transaction, so against a transaction ID, Okay? So transaction ID is your order hyphen serve hyphen zero. This is the transaction ID. Against that it it stores the PID. Producer ID. Apart from that it also hold other information like epoch, its state, partition involved, which we will see soon. So one thing is that in the transaction, no matter how many times your application restart, if your application if your producer has the same transaction ID, it can always get the same producer ID. So the disadvantage in idempotency is resolved. Okay? Now after writing into this topic particular partition, it return the producer. Hey, you asked for producer ID, right? Here, this is your producer ID, but epoch is zero. What is epoch? Consider it as the version. So current your version is let's say zero. Now understand that whenever a producer restarts, okay? So it send this request only once. Whenever the application is starts or during its lifetime, it only send this request once. So whenever it send this request, it will pass this transaction ID. For this transaction ID, it knows that hey, it already has this PID five. But it will every with every request with every restart it increase the version. Epoch is considered as a version. Initially it was zero, then first restart happen let's say, then it send this request again. So PID five only, but now epoch is one. And during this PID is five only, but epoch is two. It increase the version. Okay? And I will tell you why this version is important. Because this only helps in avoiding the zombie fencing. Initially if you remember, I told you that every instance of producer should have different transaction ID. Why? Because it helps in avoiding zombie fencing. Now we will see what is zombie fencing. But at this point of time you got to know that producer ask the transaction coordinator, hey, give me the give me the producer ID. Transaction coordinator write this into a partition of this topic. Hey, this is the transaction ID. This is the PID. This is the version. Currently state is empty. Partition involved is empty. And return it. And I told you I already told you that in idempotency I have we have covered this. So whenever the producer ask for PID unique ID, it generate a PID, but never stored it. So that's why when you restarted, you get a new ID. But now this is not with the case. So it is stored here. Whenever you restarted, you pass the same transaction ID. Now against this transaction ID, it already has the PID. So the issue is resolved in transaction. As this topic now holds the mapping. Okay? So this is the all the information is stored. Transaction ID, you have a PID producer ID, epoch, which is act as a version, state, partition involved and timeout. So PID is the unique producer ID. Epoch considered at already told you considered as a version. 0 1 2 3 likewise. State. So see, in transaction, states flow like this in Kafka. Earlier it is empty. When the transaction is start, it is now ongoing. When after it is about to commit, first it goes into prepare commit and from prepare commit it goes to the committed state. So these are all states. Similarly from ongoing if abort is going to happen, first prepare to abort and then it goes to abort. So these two steps are critical because after this step there is no kind of a step back. If prepare to commit or prepare to abort happens, then no matter what, whether anything down or up, ultimately transaction has to be commit. If prepare abort has been written into the state, no matter what, if it if any broker is down or anything up, whenever the network is up, it has to complete and do the abort. That's the same rule into the transaction. And maybe if you're working with DBMS, the same thing. Once this is written prepare to commit, prepare to abort, after that it has to commit. Okay? It has to be aborted. If you have a two phase commit if you remember that one. So this is the flow. The very similar flow here itself. Then partitions involved. So in what this happen is in an ongoing transaction, what all partitions are getting touched, it is stored. Let's say for topic A partition zero is touched. Topic B partition two is touched. So whichever partitions of us different different topics, okay? Which are part or which are need to be grouped together in this transaction, those are returned partitions involved. Let's say topic A partition two, topic B partition one. These two involved in this specific partition. Which currently the state is this. And the timeout. Maximum time this transaction can remain in ongoing state. After that this transaction coordinate will abort it. So see, you your transaction cannot be always like in open. When I say open, consider that ongoing. Okay? Open or ongoing. So once you start the transaction, let's say it is in ongoing state or open state. But it cannot be always in open state, right? So there is some maximum timeout limit we have to set. Hey, if transaction is not prepared to commit, move to the next state commit or abort within this much maximum time, then go and abort it itself. So this is the maximum timeout your transaction coordinator will wait for your transaction to complete. Okay? So these all things are stored into this topic transaction underscore state topic. Now advantage of keeping information like this. First advantage I've already told you, it solves the problem of the idempotency. Even if your producer application restart, it sends the transaction ID. Okay? It send this request initialize producer ID request, pass the transaction ID. From this transaction ID, it will see that okay, there is already a record present and it just find out the same PID. And it return the same PID. Okay? So the problem with idempotency is resolved. First thing. Second is it helps in zombie fencing.
