=== Flow of send events when Transaction Begins (2068s - 2272s) ===

This is clear till now? So, we going to do a step four. So, a step one transaction ID. Transaction coordinator also has been fetched. Then it got producer ID and version. This all this is all producer able to do. Now, a step four begin transaction and it start sending the event. So, it has to begin the transaction. Okay? Now, once the transaction is begun, what it will do is it will send, let's say order event. This is the key. This is the order. Like normal event it send. So, now you can say that there is an interceptor. Okay? Before it do an actual send to a particular partition leader for this order topic, it first send the request to the transaction coordinator. Hey, transaction coordinator. I am going to send in this topic. And it knows which partition also. In this partition. Okay? It will send this. Transaction ID it will pass. Hey, this is my transaction ID. This is the process producer ID. My version is this. And this is the partition of an order event I'm going to touch. What transaction coordinator will do? It will update. It already has transaction [snorts] ID. It will check okay, producer ID five. This request is coming for version epoch zero. I also have epoch zero. So, yes, let me pass through. So, it will update the state from empty to ongoing. Partition involved update empty to order event P2. Okay? This is going to touch. So, it will send okay and then ultimately the send call will go to a particular broker, let's say. So, this is the broker, let's say leader of this topic partition two order event partition two. So, that it will write its log. Simple log. Okay? It will acknowledge. Now, let's say this producer is sending another transaction payment event. Very similar to how it send an event. Again, it will call would be intercepted. First, it will tell to the transaction coordinator. Hey, my transaction ID is this. My producer ID and version is this. I am going to touch payment event partition one. So, it will update. Hey, okay, transaction ID producer ID is five. Version is zero. Yes, match. Okay. Status is still ongoing. Partition you are touching is payment event P1. So, it will update the partition involved. It will send okay and then the send request to the partition leader of payment events partition one. Let's say broker two is the leader of partition one of payment event. So, it will simply write it log. And it will send the acknowledge. So, this flow is clear. Begin transaction and send events. So, we have begin the transaction and events start sending the events. So, every send before that it got intercepted, you can see. And update on transaction state topic happen.
