=== Flow of Commit and Abort event, the 2 Phase Protocol (2272s - 2685s) ===

Now, you can say that of two phase protocol is started. Because now after you have completed all the send, now only two things you have to do. Whether you have to commit or whether you have to abort. Okay? So, this prepare commit prepare abort, you can say that internal. Why is that? I will show tell you also. But for us, two phase protocol start because after this now we want to go to the commit or abort. So, let's see commit. So, now what would happen? Let's say all the send event done. Now, commit transaction phase. What it will do is it will send to the transaction coordinator that I want to do commit. This is my transaction ID. This is the producer ID and this is the version. I want to commit now. So, first thing first is that this transaction coordinator is stored as a prepare commit before it goes to the broker. Because this is point of no return. Once this prepare commit is written, after that no matter if this broker down the order event or the partition event this broker down or whatever even if this transaction coordinator down, no matter what, whenever they will get up, they will start from here itself. So, it has to be commit only. It cannot goes to the ongoing state now or it cannot goes to the abort. You have written a prepare commit. Hey, I got a commit request. I have written prepare commit first. Okay? It hasn't goes to the broker one broker two yet. It has written prepare commit first. Okay? And after this once it is written, then there is no point of return. Ultimately, this state will change to commit only. And how this change will list to commit? So, now it will send to the broker one. Hey. This is a commit for this producer ID and epoch zero. So, it add a control record commit. Okay? Now, very interesting thing. If you go the check send event, okay? You know that during the send event, the transaction coordinator write into this transaction state topic that this is an ongoing the partition involved is this. And after that it done, it send to the partition leader and log has written. Now, in this log in header, it add few more information. What information? It has PID. It has epoch. And also has like is transactional. True. This three information also it append. Okay? And after that it has a record. If it is a batch, multiple records like this. But the header has PID and epoch and also is transaction equals to true. So, the same thing. Now, this transaction coordinator first send the commit control control command you can say commit control command to the broker one. This partition two. Hey, for this producer ID and this epoch, record this. And it will add one log simply. Remember that the logs or the rights in Kafka is append only. It cannot update, delete anything. So, this just add new record into its log file that hey, okay. PID five, epoch zero, control record is true. This is control record and commit. That's all. It just append one log. And it say done. After that, it send to the It will check its partition involved. It will pass to the another partition, payment event partition one. It will send it. Hey, record a control record commit for this PID and epoch zero. It will also do that, okay? PID five, epoch zero, control. This is a control record true. And I want to commit. So, this will just append into its log file. It will say done. Now, from all the partition which are involved, it get a done. Ultimately, it finalize and change to commit. Commit completed. Done. And it will return success. Okay? And very very similar abort. No difference. If you understand the commit, the same thing. Well, if now let's see if it has to abort, again, it will first do prepare hyphen abort. After that, no point, no return. Okay? No matter if any broker down, transaction coordinator down. Whenever it will be up, ultimately, this would be changed to abort only. And how it will be changed to abort? It will send the abort control to each of this partition. And once they write one record, whatever the producer ID, epoch, control is true, control record and abort. They will send done. After that, it will say abort completed. Success. Okay? So, prepare abort phase is very very similar to commit only. And after that, from a step four, the process begins. Okay? Then after that, new transaction, new transaction. Remember that transaction in producer is single threaded. When one transaction is going on, okay? Let's say for this transaction ID T1. For this transaction ID for producer, producer with transaction ID T1, if this is ongoing, you cannot start another transaction. Okay? You cannot restart another transaction. So, it's a single threaded. One transaction at a time happens. Okay? So, now one transaction is completed. Now, from a step four, begin transaction, the new transaction get started. So, step four is this one. So, begin transaction next time, it will before it send, it will make it everything like transaction ID, whatever the PID, epoch, state ongoing, whatever the partition it touching, it will update it. It will now restart everything. So, got it? I will show you the demo. Things will get clear. So, we will see this
