=== Transaction Id (309s - 667s) ===

Kafka. Very very important topic from interview perceptive. And even if you are working it, then you must know internal of it because this is very critical and very frequently used in the industry. Okay. So, let's just start. Step one is transaction ID. Each producer assign themselves a unique transaction ID. Okay. If producer application has multiple instances, then each instance should have different unique ID. Very important part. Okay. And a question might have come to your mind that why each instance should have a different transaction ID. I will also explain that. Unique ID should be stable. Means, if application restart, this ID should not be changed. So, what this three point is that, let's say, you have a producer application. And if this application has multiple instances, instance one, instance two, instance three. Okay, and this is the same producer application, let's say. Same producer application. So, each instance should have unique transaction ID. Transaction ID one, transaction ID two, let's say, transaction ID three. Unique transaction ID. So, question might have come to you that why for my application is same, but only I have different instances, why transaction ID should be different for each instance also? It because to avoid zombie fencing. Don't worry about this. Okay, what is zombie fencing and all because at this point of time, it would be little early for me to cover this. As we proceed further, I will come to this and things will automatically get clear to you. But, what I want is that at this point, all we understand that each instance of producer should have a unique transaction ID. And this transaction ID should be such that even if it restarted, this ID should not get changed. Okay, that's the requirement of the transaction ID. And how you add it into your producer application? spring.kafka.producer.transaction-id-prefix. Okay. So, whatever the name you want to give, hyphen, like anything which makes it unique. Because, let's say, if you See, if you have only one application, then you can just simply give like order-serv. Okay. If you think that this is unique, then give this. But, if you have multiple instances, instance one, instance two, instance three. Okay. So, you can add this. So, if you're using Kubernetes, then it will automatically add a unique host name. And even if you restart, this host name would be same. Okay. But, if you have only one application, you can simply remove it. You can simply have order-serv- Okay, and the Spring Boot prefix automatically append zero something. So, you have you will have a unique ID, transaction ID. Okay. But, remember that if you have multiple instances, then you should have something that even if multiple instances are created, each one should get a different transaction ID. Okay. So, here you can use host name. If you have each instance running at different port number, then you can append the port number. Okay. Whatever, according to your business on your application, you can append something which is unique. And whenever always make sure that you don't do something like random UUID. You don't append this because if you restart this application, you will get new ID. And that breaks the core guarantee of the transaction. Because, see, transaction can only work properly when you have a unique transaction ID. Unique transaction ID. Even if it restart, you have the same transaction ID because it does a lot of mapping based on this transaction ID also. I will tell you what all mapping it does. But, if this transaction ID will get changed, then whatever the mapping it stored previously before the restart, that would get lost. So, it's the same idempotency problem we would come here itself. Okay. So, that's the main requirement of transaction ID. And this is how in a Spring Boot in producer application, you can add this. Order hyphen serve, whatever for service, you can add serve order hyphen service hyphen If you have multiple instances, you can do this. So, Kubernetes would add the host name for each instance. Or you can use server port. Okay? So, yes. We will put this in backlog for some time. And when we proceed further, we will get to know about this zombie fencing. Because question is definitely this doubt might have comes to every engineer that why why each instance should have a unique transaction ID. Why why not like one producer application, no matter how many instances, why can't we can have just one T1 one transaction ID for all? Okay? We will come to this zombie fencing, very important part. So, step one is done that to our producer application, we have assigned transaction ID. Now, the step two is find the
