=== Problems without Transaction in Kafka (31s - 309s) ===

problems. Okay, which can happen without transaction. One problem I have already shared with you during idempotency topic. Okay, in Kafka producer, we have discussed the idempotency. This one. If you haven't check it, check it out. Okay. So, in that, I told you that whenever the producer restart, it get a new producer ID. So, if you can recall the idempotency video, in that the producer ID and sequence number, these two are used to maintain ordering and to avoid duplicate. Okay. But, the problem is that this producer ID is not stored anywhere at the broker or coordinator side. So, when the producer restart, it get a new producer ID. And when it get a new producer ID, so there is a chance of duplicate. Okay. If you have a doubt with this one, kindly check it out this idempotency internal video. You will get more clarity on this one. Okay. So, that is the first problem. The second problem is the partial right. Let's see. You are producing you have to produce this two events. It should be atomic. Means, if you are publishing order event, then you should also publish payment event. Okay, so these two has to be happen together. If you have scenario like this, then without transaction, there is a possibility of partial right. Okay. Let's say that order event success. Payment event success. But, inventory event failed. Okay. So, my requirement was this three should happen together. But, this two got success, but this got failed. Because of this, what happened is, let's say, understand this. Order placed, payment happened, but stocks inventory is not reserved. Okay. So, partial rights happen. Inconsistent state happen in the system. So, this is also very important. Okay. Whenever you have a condition whether you have multiple events that need to go together, publish together. If you all do not follow transaction, this scenario can come. Partial rights scenario. Another is, so again, see, partial right can happen from at the producer side. And this idempotency one, problem with idempotency, also we know that it can happen at the producer side only. But, there is one more problem which can happen at consumer side. And that is like read, process, write problem. So, let's say that the consumer poll the event from the broker, it got, hey, this is the offset. This is the record, let's say. And so, this is first read. So, it read. Then it process. Whatever the business logic it has to do on this event, it do. So, process. Then write. Then what it has happening is then it publish another event based on this processing, let's say. Okay. So, it's business logic is that read the event, process it, and publish another event. In that scenario, there is a possibility that a duplicate can happen. How? Let's say this scenario. So, consumer read it, processes it, and write to another event, another topic. Okay. And now it has to commit the offset. Hey, I am done with this offset 50. But, what happened is this offset got lost. Okay. So, when the consumer did poll again, which offset it will get again? The same 50. Okay, it will send the same record with offset 50. Now, it will process it again and it will publish it again. Okay, so this duplicate processing happening. So, that can also be solved through transaction. Okay. So, this three problems, understand those three problems first properly. Okay, then only proceed further. So, the solution is transaction in
