=== Code Implementation (2685s - 3085s) ===

implementation first because now we will be able to club all the things together. And after that, we will see the demo and that will get make things super clear. Okay? And still, till now what we have seen is the producer side, producer side transaction. How consumer consume this records, we have to see that. So, first again, this is all producer side changes I am showing you. In the application.properties, we have to put a transaction ID prefix order hyphen serve hyphen. I have only one producer, that's why I haven't put anything. Okay? So, this would be my unique transaction ID. So, Spring Boot will append zero after it. Okay? So, this is my transaction ID. And the timeout by default is 60 second even if you don't write it. But if you want to change it, you can add this transaction timeout millisecond. You know what uh where it will get updated? This one. In the transaction state, it has multiple fields. So, this timeout, okay? After this timeout, even if you have any transaction ongoing, this will get aborted. Okay? But this configuration if you want default itself, let you need only one. Otherwise, if you want to change it, you can use it. Second thing is it just a controller method. I have added a API transaction hyphen commit. It just invoke the send this service layer. Okay? All I have is now order event and payment payment object you can say that payment object, order object. Whatever the order object I got, I created one payment object and I just called my service layer. Now, this is important. Okay? Now, in this, this is very similar to how producer used to send a event. dot send the topic, the key, and the object. Okay? Now, only difference is we have to wrap it inside begin transaction, then your code logic, then once successful commit. If there is any failure, abort. So, that's why now Kafka template.send. Now, I did Kafka template execute in transaction. We have to use it execute in transaction. So, if you go inside this method execute in transaction, okay? You would see this. It will begin the transaction. Okay? Then do in operation like your logic. Like this logic. Okay? This is the lambda expression, right? So, this will get invoked. This lambda expression. So, all the events which has to be grouped together. So, order events, payment events, all this. So, that will run. Send order event. Send payment event. Okay? After that, everything is success, commit the transaction. If try catch, anything failure, abort transaction. So, this is you can say that if you want to write it, you can write it also. But there is already a method present Kafka template execute in transaction. Okay? And it's a functional interface, we can provide this lambda expression. This lambda expression is nothing. You can just simply like how you how we used to provide send the events, we can add as many events we want to publish. Okay? And that will just get invoked here between begin and commit. And but if there is any exception comes during this send, abort will happen. But very important thing which many ignores is that with each send, we have to do join. If you remember the from the producer, this diagram, if you remember, I told you that application thread is only work till record accumulator. After that, it get free. Okay? It It fulfill It You can say that uh It is free to serve more request. After that, there is a different thread, sender thread, which works. But in case of transaction, we want to wait. Hey, I want to send whether any failure comes or not. If any failure comes, we have to abort it. Okay? That's why I put join. When you do don't join, it will wait. So, your application thread waits here. Okay? The standard thread will pick it up and whatever the response will come acknowledge proper. Okay? If it is come proper acknowledge this properly paid, no issues, everything fine, then only it will proceed further. But if any exception come during send, let's say, okay? Uh So, what would happen generally is that your broker will book it will up end into the log and it will send. Okay? Then ultimately it will get acknowledged done. If But if there is any issue at the broker layer while inserting into the log everywhere, it will fail it here itself and ultimately it exception about will be called. So, remember when you're doing a transaction, with every send, we have to make use of join. If you don't make use of join, what would happen is your thread become free here itself. Okay? Now, what happened is if later once your transaction get completed, then you got that hey, it is fail. Completable future, remember? In the producer it's a completable future. Now you say that okay, it is fail. But you won't be able to do about after then. So, that's why with every send, we have to wait for the broker response. If they're able to write it properly, then only we proceed to the next send. And when every send is proper, then only we do commit. Otherwise, if there is any issue with any send, this join itself will fail and we will abort it. Okay? So, let's
