=== Demo (3085s - 3698s) ===

see a demo. So, first thing I am doing is so we have already done this setup a lot. Okay? So, I'm just uh starting con- uh controller one, controller two. So, both controllers are starting and I have three brokers. I'm starting the broker one. Okay, sorry. Uh just a sec. Broker level, no. Broker one I'm starting. Then I'm starting broker two. I'm starting broker three. So, two controller, three brokers are started. Okay? And uh Let's see. The same thing I have is in application.properties, I have added this. Transaction ID prefix order-serve. Zero would be appended by or some number would be appended by Spring. Okay? I think it's always zero. First uh one producer application, it always append zero. And the timeout. If it is not required, if you have to change it, you can change it, but this is the default itself. Okay? So, only you need transaction ID prefix. Then in order controller, I have this transaction commit endpoint. I just created an object of payment, the same thing. Calling the service. In service layer, I have execute in transaction. If you go inside this, the same thing I showed you that begin. Okay? Then after that, it invokes over this lambda. This lambda. Okay? And if all success, it will do commit. If there is any exception, it will abort it. Okay? And our lambda is simple. I am doing publishing an event, very simple. Dot send similarly, but also doing join. This is the system.out.println to like which partition it goes. Similarly, I'm sending touching payments events. This is just a system.out.println. That's all. So, let's hit it. Transaction commit. And let's see that currently at the Let me start the producer itself. So, first also see Also, let's see that currently order event do not exist. Similarly, payment events &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; do not exist. So, when we will start the producer application, so during the start itself, we will create this. Create order, create payment. So, let me start the producer application. So, I've started the producer application now. Now, let's see this first order events. Okay? So, three partitions. Which all applications are the leader? Which all brokers are the leader? It's there. Similarly, payment events also is there now. Cool. Now, let's hit this endpoint. With order one. Committed. Let me see. Order is written into partition zero, offset zero. So, partition zero. Who is the leader of partition zero? Order. Leader five. Leader five is let's say one is controller one, two is controller two, three is broker one, uh four is broker two, five is broker three. So, we have to check the broker three logs. Okay? So, let me check the broker three logs. So, there would be huh. So, we have to check the broker three logs. Order- partition zero, right? Partition zero. Okay. So, now here notice that. So, here if you see, so this is the record which goes, right? O-1. This is what we have inserted. But here if you see first header is that transaction equals to true. Okay? Transaction is true. And after that, it has producer ID, P ID, and epoch zero. If you remember, if you just recall it from our flow, okay? The first thing it has done is when it added into the log, it added P ID, epoch, and is transaction true. Okay? Added into the header. And then our record. At offset zero, it added our record. Okay? After that, it goes into the pay- payments. So, in the payment, we have to see now payment is written into partition two. So, payment is written into partition two. Partition two leader is five. Again, the broker three. Payment events, right? Okay? So, we have to now check broker three only. Payment events, but partition two. Okay? So, here if you see that producer ID, epoch, transaction equals to true. Okay? And this is the data. Pay- the order ID zero minus one. Okay? Now, after that, everything is done properly. So, if you see our code, it has written into order ID, it has written into payment. After that, the transaction will properly do a commit commit transaction. So, now if you recall, when it commit, what happened is it will send to each broker that add a control record. So, now we will see that in the here, order event one, if you see at offset one, what you see? Producer ID is zero, epoch is zero. Is transaction is true? Is control true? Means whatever the record you are going to see is the control record. Okay? And what is the control record is? Commit. Similarly, payment events, if you see offset one, producer ID zero, epoch zero, transaction true, control. This is a control record. What is the commit. Okay? Similarly, here I have one more endpoint abort. Now, in this what I'm doing is the same thing. First, it will put into order event and after that I'm throwing a run time exception. Okay? Just to show that it has been aborted properly. So, abort. O-2. Aborted. Transaction will abort. So, now let's see this uh let me first see. Okay? Order sent to partition two. Order goes to the partition two. So, let me see which is the leader. Order event. Partition two, leader four. Leader four means your broker two. So, I need to check the broker two logs. So, let me clear it first. So, I need to check the broker two log. And which partition it goes? P2. Okay, not payment events. It's order hyphen events. Okay. Now here if you see first is transactional. So O hyphen two, right? So here if you see producer ID zero, epoch zero, transactional is true. This is not a control record. And here if you see the order O2. But after that I send an exception. So this should be rolled back, aborted. Okay. So that should add a new record offset one, right? So here producer ID zero, epoch zero transactional true, is control true. This is a control record. What is it? Abort. state you'll find that that there are total 50 partitions, zero to 49. Okay. Each having three replicas. So you got it? This is at producer layer. So in producer how transaction is managed. Now the another problem or you can say that another challenge come is that how consumer understand this records. Okay. So now we have seen this one. In the order even log you see that first producer ID epoch ID, transactional is true, and then you will see the record. Similarly uh when the commit happen you will see that is control is true and the commit. And the payment even logs the similarly. Now the thing is that how consumer consume this records. That I will show you in the next part. But I hope how transaction is handled at the producer side that is clear. Okay. Let's see you in the next part. How consumer handles it. Very interesting.
