=== KRaft vs Zookeeper (373s - 1313s) ===

So now again knowing about controller few things comes to our mind. What if this controller get failed? Seems like a brain of the cluster, right? What if this get fails? Seems like a very important uh node. So one thing, one answer which can come to us is that hey we can have multiple controllers like we have multiple brokers we can have even multiple controllers right controller one controller two. Now the question is that like okay for multiple brokers controller is present to control them. Now for multiple controllers do we need another controller? It's like a loop. Okay. Then that will become a bottleneck. Then for that we need a multiple instances. Okay. So how this is handled? So answer is KAF which is a modern and the zookeeper which is legacy. Okay. So I will focus on KF one because zookeeper is now deprecated in latest versions of Kafka. So if you [clears throat] are using Kafka greater than equals to 3.x uh now zookeeper is deprecated in those and it has been replaced with K raft Kafka raft. So both helps Kafka to manage cluster metadata. Okay. So this is very important part and uh let's see this what how exactly this K raft helps to resolve this like we have a controller right so currently this become our one controller become our single point of failure. If the controller goes down, you won't be able to create a topic. Okay? And if any broker goes down, they there will be no one no controller means they won't know if broker one is down or not. Okay? So you can say that currently it's a single point of failure for us. So that's where kaf comes into the picture. Okay. But why zookeeper is deprecated is because zookeeper is an external distributed system which Kafka has to deployed separately, monitor separately and maintain separately apart from Kafka. So it's an external dependency for Kafka. So that's why they have built their own kaf okay and you can say that it it lies with controller itself. Okay. So there is no external dependency. So you consider that when you when I'm talking about controller, controller has this koft logic also. So both zookeeper and kaf uses consensus algorithm. Okay. Zookeeper use zap consensus. KF uses raft consensus. That's why the name KF Kafka raft. Now the question might have come to you. What is consensus? Okay. And why Kafka controller needed? So problem for our problem is one controller is bottleneck because controller are the one which stores the cluster metadata create delete topic decide partition leader and follower keep track of broker heartbeat and timely detect any broker failure. If any broker is failed, distribute its topic and partition to other broker. Keep other brokers up to date about cluster information. These are some of the responsibilities of controller. Okay. And if this controller fails, the cluster becomes unavailable. We cannot create new topic. If any broker is down, no one would be able to take its responsibility apart on behalf of it. And all cluster metadata information is lost also because all the cluster metadata information would be hold within this controller. So how this raft consensus solve this. Yeah. So we need first thing is multiple controller. That's where now we have controller one, controller 2, controller 3. One thing is clear. Now the same question comes how now this who will manage these three controllers. Okay we have multiple broker broker one broker two and we know that controller are managing them but who will manage this three controllers. So no one they will follow raft consensus algorithm. Okay. Each controller has raft you can say that implementation consensus implementation. Okay. And only one controller is active or act as a leader in one cluster. So in one Kafka cluster, okay, only one controller act as an active controller and other controllers act as a standby controller. Okay. Now the question is who will decide among controller who is leader and who is follower. Again the same question now comes. Okay. Now I am saying that out of this three controller only one has to be active and other standby. But who will decide? You will decide me will decide? No. What they will follow raft consensus algorithm for everything. So it's raft consensus means that uh voting understand that it's kind of a voting. Okay. So all the decision is taken by quorum. Quorum means that majority of the nodes. Now let's say that we have three controllers. So quarum would be nx2 + 1. So three so we have three controllers, right? So 3x2 + 1. So the quorum is that you got two nodes. Yes, you can do that. Okay. So these many controller node should agree on any decision before it can be final. Okay. So all the decision that who would be the active controller and who would be the standby. Okay. So they will decide through quorum like they do kind of a voting and if they get a majority of the vote that decision become final. So for example quorum happen which controller should become active controller any change is happening in the cluster metadata that also be like pass through quorum like majority of them should be agree that yes this change should happen. How internally raft algorithm would be like that is out of the scope like how internally raft algorithm work. Okay. But now this flow what we have seen earlier this one let's say create topic request earlier controller updates the cluster metadata. Now when the kaf comes into the picture this flow become little different. Now let's see from producer or admin cla you created first you created a topic create topic request. Okay. And you want three partition of this topic and replication factor is two. The request will goes to any broker. What any broker will do is pass the request to active controller. Broker will always talk to active controller only. Okay, it passed to active controller. Now what active controller will do? It will create topic. It will decide the leader and the follower partitions. Okay, that partition zero leader would be inside broker one and partition zero follower would be inside broker two. Like all this information it will create and it will create metadata record with offset say zero because now metadata is getting changed. Uh some information about broker partition has need to be stored right. So it will create new metadata entries. Now what this controller will do it will pass this metadata information to its KF layer. So now here if you see that in case of zookeeper it has to make let's say network call to other service. Now this kaf consensus is implemented within controller itself. So it's part of a controller you can say that. So it just like invoke the method some kaf consensus pass to its kaf layer. Now what it will do it will initiate the quorum process. What this KF will do? It will call all standby controllers KF methods. Okay. Now it will have this like okay before it initiate the column it will also do that like it will update its local cluster metadata law. this controller one. Okay, when it pass this KF layer, this KF at controller one update at least its local cluster metadata log but it's not committed yet. So it has its own file like okay offset 99 I have certain metadata record this is the new metadata record I am writing let's say offset is 100 I write it but it's not committed yet because quorum has to be I need to achieve a quorum I I need to have a majority of the votes before I commit so it write into a local file but it's not committed and it have the last committed offset is 99. Okay. If you are already working with Kafka, then you might be uh aware of the keyword uh the word high [snorts] watermark. Okay. But just like another like buzz word like high watermark, it's nothing but last committed offset. Okay. Till 99 means every controller agree on this metadata change. But this offset 100 metadata change. Currently it's not committed. So now it initiate the corum. Now the request goes to each different controllers. Okay. Now what they will do is they will also have Kraft algorithm runs and if they are also agree what they will do is they will update their cluster metadata local cluster metadata too. So offset 99 offset 100 not committed last committed is 99 for it also. Similarly controller 3 its kaf also agree with this changes. So it will also update its local cluster metadata offset 99 was already there. Now offset 100 which is coming not committed yet because it doesn't know this doesn't know whether quorum has it is able to get the majority vote or not but from it side yes I am okay it updated its local record but not committed and still last committed is 99 100 is not yet and they send a response back to this active controller. Now what it will do is it will check yes majority are able to write or majority I got the majority like yes I got yes from them. Okay they are okay with the changes. So what ultimately it will do is commit. Okay. So now here if you see that offset in the local it will do this 100 offset commit and it update its committed offset 100. And now what it will do is this cluster metadata log it will now pass it to different broker. So now broker one all the broker now has information that okay broker one it's taking care of this topic this partition as a leader and this partition as a follower. So now all knows about the cluster metadata. Now you might be thinking that okay what about these controllers standby controllers they still have not committed right? So see active controller need to send the heartbeat to standby controller because see if active controller goes down one of the standby controller need to become a active controller. So for that active controller need to continuously send heartbeat. So with heartbeat it also send it's the last committed offset also. So the controller one is sending this raft controller one raft sending the heartbeat to controller 2 standby and controller 3 standby raft and this also send the last committed offset. So they will get to know their raft logic has all the algorithm which you don't have to worry about and out of the like uh scope for this they will know that okay last committed for the active controller is 100 over is 99 but they already have the record that's why it's not copied it's replicated they already have the record now they just make it committed and update their committed offset so Whole cluster metadata log is not get copied only the latest record. You can say that it already has that but it get the information that yes now the active controller has committed. Let us commit also. So there now all are in sync with each other. Okay. So now you got it very important this K raft and why zookeeper is deprecated. So KAFT is the one which actually you can say that u manages the controller okay and takes care of all the quorum and this cluster metadata storage like earlier it is in committed once the majority votes got then only it get committed. So all this handles by KF now okay and don't consider that KF is a different than controller it's just like part of a controller okay just like for understanding that yes it's like you can say controller has business logic create topic decide the leader follower and this koft has you can say at storage consensus logic. Okay.
