=== Controllers (0s - 373s) ===

continue. So in the previous video we have discussed about cluster and the place where we have left is that now we have multiple brokers who will decide that okay this broker one host this topic and for this topic this partition has to be the leader and this partition it need to have as a follower broker two [snorts] need to host this topic and for this topic partition one should be the leader and partition zero should be act as a follower. So who decide this? So that's where the controller comes into the picture. So controller you can say that it is nothing different. It is again a broker only but responsibilities you can uh you can say that a roles are different. Okay. So it's a special broker which responsibilities are creation of topic each partition elect partition leader and follower detect broker failure. Okay notify all broker about the changes. So you can say that they are act as a coordinator among different brokers. Okay. All the brokers keep on sending the heartbeats to the controller and controller can know that okay which broker is up which broker is down and it can do elect like okay this broker should hold this partition as a leader this as a follower okay if this broker is down whatever the partition it has okay that need to be handed over to different broker okay So in short controller manage the cluster metadata like info about topic about partition about broker etc everything and yes you can have a dedicated controller you can say that a broker with just one responsibility controller only a broker can have like a dual responsibility like a normal broker which you can say that uh uh produce uh producer and consumer request also it will take care of it plus controller [snorts] also it will control other brokers also. Okay. So for simplicity whatever I will show I will like a controller having one responsibility so that it it would be easy to understand. Okay. So now see this example. I have a producer in the Kafka cluster. I have multiple brokers. Let's say Kafka broker one, Kafka broker two. Each Kafka broker has topic and hold certain partition, right? Some as leader and some as followers you have a consumer consumer group and now here I have a controller. Okay. So again it's again a broker only but here I'm choosing that they have only one responsibility of controlling the brokers. That's all. Okay. So what does controller manage is controller maintain? What I told you cluster this Kafka cluster metadata like information about topic about partition about broker everything. And where does it store? It store this information is cluster metadata log. So this broker you can say that has this information cluster metadata lock file. Okay. So it holds this information. So understand with this flow let's say producer or from admin CLI you raised a request to create a topic order events you need to create an topic and you want to have a three partition and replication factor as two okay so order events will have like partition zero partition one partition two and replication factor is two means one leader one follower two one leader one follower one leader one follower so total six so what producer see producer and admin they can directly talk to broker not controller in our scenario I'm taking that controllers are like having only one responsibility to manage broker okay they will not fulfill producer and consumer request so producer and admin CLI from wherever you are creating the topic they will talk to any broker cost either this or this they don't care okay they will say that hey take this create topic request now what broker will do is it will pass the request to the active controller okay let's say pass the request to this controller this controller will create topic decide which broker will have this partition as leader and other as follower so this will take care of And it update this information into cluster metadata. Cluster metadata has all the informations about topics about partition. Okay. For this topic, this partition leader is this broker and followers are present into this this broker. It has all the information. Okay. So it update into its cluster metadata log and it also forward this information to broker also. all the different brokers. So it keeps broker up to date. Any changes happening in the cluster, it happens via controller. Controller update the cluster metadata log and after that it will pass it to all the brokers so that brokers are also up to date. Okay.
