=== ISR (in-sync Replicas) (1313s - 1980s) ===

Now since we are talking about cluster metadata, this is one of the important cluster metadata information ISR insync replica. Okay, again I will pause for one minute here. If you are seeing that this getting more complex don't worry uh for now like cluster okay ISR which we are going to see K raft this small small subp parts let it be clear and then I will show you one complete flows also okay but we need to understand this you can say that subp part of Kafka 2 to understand it in depth Okay. So, ISR ISR is another important cluster metadata. So, who maintains the cluster metadata? Controller. Controller also maintains one more important cluster metadata is ISR insync replica. What is that? For each partition, ISR represent the list of replica which are fully caught up with leader. For example, you have a topic order event partition one. Replication factor is three. What does replication factor three means? Leader and two followers. Okay. So total three replicas. So leader is let's say you have a broker one and followers are broker two and broker three. So what is the possible insync replica for this topic and this partition? So for this partition of this topic ISR is in sync replica. So these are all the replicas which are currently let's say in sync that's what it means that in sync replicas for this partition ISR is nothing but a list. So it maintain a list of all the replicas which are in sync for the partition in simple way. So for example if broker 3 lacks too much let's say broker one leader it is currently latest offset is nine broker two follower it is also at this offset. Okay, because follower keep on uh keep itself up to date with the leader. It keep on sending the poll request to the leader. Hey, any latest update? Any latest update? So, broker one knows broker the leader broker means leader leader knows that which follower is up to date in sync. Okay. Now, let's say broker three follower is out of the sync. Let's say for I think five minutes broker one leader hasn't heard or hasn't got any poll request out of this. Okay. So it got out of the sync. So what broker one will do? Broker one will update the ISR list. Hey, for this partition for this partition one of this topic the ISR is in sync replicas are only broker one and broker two. Broker 3 is temporarily removed from ISR. Okay. Now the question is how broker or how leader decide particular follower is out of sync. Okay. So there is one way that you have this lag time. If replica offset is close enough to leader log and offset then you can say that it is in sync and if it is within so you have a lag time. Let's say if by default is let's say if 30 second lag is there between the leader and the follower you can still say that yes they are in sync. Okay. But if it is more than 30 second we can say that now follower is lagging and how leader knows that because every follower see Kafka is like pull based. So follower is keep on pulling it send a poll request. Hey any request any request any latest updates. Okay [snorts] so leader has the information. Okay. As as soon as it find out that it is lagging more than this time then it considered as that you are getting too much delayed and it will remove it from the ISR. So what it will do is the leader update the ISR list and pass it to the controller that hey this is the latest updated ISR please update the metadata cluster metadata. Now you might be thinking hey what is the use of this maintaining this list. Now see this example now in the producer is trying to publish an event. So when producer publishing an event it also sends this. So in the config we can set acknowledge equals to zero or one or all. So what does that mean? Now let's say that uh this is like currently it's null for this topic. Okay. And uh let's say for this topic currently it's null. round robin let's say partition two for example and partition two let's say leader is uh broker one okay so the request ultimately goes to the broker one which is the leader of this partition because you know that leader is the only one which handles write and read no followers will do that so the write request will always goes to the broker which holds this partition leader. Okay. So what this will do it will just persist it. It will persist the event in the partition to logs. Okay. And uh and in the partition two log it will hold in one of its segment file. That is done. But producer has used acknowledge all. So now what this leader will do, it will wait for all ISR replicas to update the events. Now let's say broker 2, broker 3. Now let's say ISR is broker one, broker two, broker 3. So it was three replicas and all currently three replicas are in sync for this partition. So since producer has sent acknowledge is equals to all. So all three rep all three this replicas which is inside ISR in sync replicas list they need to also get updated. So when B b1 already got it. So when B2 will fetch the latest poll request promised and once it is su successfully written it will send the acknowledge. Similarly, it will do poll and once successfully done, it will acknowledge yes, I am also return. And once all the replicas have written successfully, then only it will send publish event successfully. Okay. So acknowledge zero means fire and forget. Producer send the record to the leader and do not wait even for the leader also whether leader success or able to persisted or not it crash doesn't care producer doesn't even care about the leader also one means wait for the leader at least okay so producer send the request wait so leader will wait till it's write into its logs properly Okay, once it is done then it will send a successfully published response. It will not wait for all the replicas. When you send all means leader plus like all all other brokers which are there into ISR. Got it? Again now one question might come to my mind. What if this ISR list become empty? So see B3 got too much lag so it got removed. B2 let's say B2 also get lag from the leader so it can also get removed. So one thing is can it be empty? This ISR list cannot be empty. Why? Because see two thing is it will always have at least leader right? Maybe it's replica. Let's say uh replication factor is three. Okay. So you have three replicas into three different brokers. Now let's say only replica two followers one [snorts] leader. This followers might get delayed. Okay. Or there is a lag. So they might get removed from the ISR but leaders can't. Right? So that is first. ISR can never be empty. Another thing is this is one more config minimum in sync replica we have to tell. So let's say you have put two. So means apart from leader one more follower. So in this case let's say this follower and this let's say this follower and this follower goes down. Now in the insect rep uh replica you have only one. So okay now your producer send a request to the broker which is a leader of partition let's say one and it has replicated successfully now it will see ISR because now you have put producer has used acknowledge equals to all so means all the replicas which are present into ISR so currently it's only one B1 itself only leader but minimum in sync replica is two. So what it will do is it will fail. It will not be able to process this request because you have defined minimum inse uh in sync replica you need two but now this list has only one. So that also a use case. So this list cannot be empty
