=== What is Basic Authentication (0s - 304s) ===

Hey guys, Shandra said welcome to concept and coding and today in this spring security video we are going to discuss the next authentication method which is basic authentication. So till now we have seen the form login authentication method and which was a stateful authentication method and this one is stateless authentication method. So stateless authentication means server do not maintain the user authentication state. No session is maintained by the server. Okay. So why it's called basic? As from the name it is clear it is basic like very very simple. In this client has to pass the username and password with every request with every request. If you are accessing the resources 100 times you have to pass the username and password with each and every request. Right? And we have to pass this in the authorization header. So this is the form in the authorization header. We have to form pass like this. It goes like this in your request header. So first one is basic which tells yes it is a basic authentication method we are using. Then your username colon the password which is base 64 encoded. So remember that it is always in a encoded form not encrypted form right. So if anybody intercepts your request they can easily decode your username and password. That's why we call it like always use it on HTTPS. Never use it over HTTP basic authentication. Never use it basic authentication over HTTP because uh in the header we pass username and password and that is only in encoded form not encrypted form. So now we know very basic about this authentication method. Let's go step by step. Okay. So first thing first we have to create a user and we have already seen in the video number 34 like how to create a username and a user and password dynamic users we can create right we can even create a user in DB or in memory. We have already seen all possible ways to create a user. Okay. So I am using for testing purpose I am creating one user and I have hardcoded that username is user password is pass and I have provided a role admin. Okay. So I have so when I will start my server one user will get created and by default it will go into inmemory. It would be stored in inmemory not in DB. So if you have any doubt with this how user is created, how username password is stored, what is the industry standard, I would say that uh please go through this video, you will get to know that. So first thing first we have to create a user. Now if any time you are hitting a request, let's say I am hitting one get request. Okay, here if you see / API/ users in this there is something called authorization in that I have what is the O type I have choose basic O when I click on the basic O I get an option to provide a username and password so I have provided my username user and password is pass okay this one now when I hit it right in the header it goes like this basic base 64 of your username colon password. So this is your base 64 encoded form of your username colon password. It goes like this. Okay. So your username and password goes into the header authorization header. So this is the authorization field inside an header and this is how it goes. Okay. So if you open the basic authentication filter. Okay. Now when you hit it right when you click on uh send when you click on send the control will comes to the basic authentication filter. There you can check this the request try to fetch from the header authorization header. It will try to fetch and there it will decode it. And once it decoded you can see that this was your header and after decoding it you can see your username colon password. It is easy very easy to decode. If it is not encrypted then you can know that if anybody got your encoded form they can decode it. It does nothing but a base 64 only. Okay. So this is how generally it's sent in the request and you have to pass it in each and every request.
