=== Implementation (795s - 1035s) ===

we need to implement it first thing is same thing we need dependency uh security and if you want to so this is not required so you remember that in form based login we use this because we wanted to store the session into the DB now here is no session at all so we don't need this dependency so only security is required second thing is in application.properties properties if you want to create username password hardcoded then it is required otherwise dynamically you already know that in the previous video we have already discussed how to create a dynamic but I'm creating a hard-coded one so in I have created one user now see this one this is classes required so from the previous form login video you know that what is the default authentication method for spring boot it is form based login so we have to override this security filter chain and we tell that hey the authentication which we have to follow is HTTP basic not HTTP form. So we are now overriding the default one. So we are telling to spring boot that your default is HTTP form which is form authentication but we are following HTTP basic which is B basic authentication that is first thing. Second thing is this is stateless. So I have specifically mentioned that session creation policy. We already seen in the previous video what is this. So this is stateless in form based it is if required if session is required create it. But basic authentication it is stateless. Session is never created and each and every time you have to pass the username password. So it is I have specifically mentioned it is stateless. Third thing CSRF I need to disable it because from the first attack with demo video right uh before we started security I already told you that CSRF is required mainly where the session is maintained. So for the stateless CSRF is not even required. What is CSRF attack? How to protect it? we have already seen uh before we started the spring uh security videos right so you can also follow that one so why I have disabled it because this is a stateless and CSRF is not a valid for the stateless uh authentication it is only valid for where session is maintained stateful okay and here if you see that I have put request matcher any API which matches like is should have a role like user. So I am doing like an authorization filter here. The similarly like what we did in the previous video. So what would happen is when the authentication happen the request will go there it will check user is trying to access an API API/ users. Okay this is the API user is trying to hit. So this API is required any role? Yes. User role required. So user role this is required. But what is the role user has? User has role admin. So it is not matching. So it will throw forbidden error. Forbidden. So if match is let's say user and here also it is user then it will pass it and let it go. Okay. So I have here just to show that for this API I need a role user. Okay. And that's all that's all you needed it to implement the basic authentication. Everything is handled by framework. All we have to tell is like which we have to override this spring security filter chain and just tell spring boot what we want.
