=== Complete flow of Basic Authentication (464s - 795s) ===

let's understand a little bit more about basic authentication and its flow. So before I start I would highly recommend you to go through this form based authentication. Why? Because if you remember from this video form based authentication there are two part at one part where user provide a username password and the session got created and second is where user pass the session in the request itself and then where it is got authenticated. So here in the basic authentication it's a combination of both. So from first part yes username and password we are providing but we are not creating session in the second like there is no second call there is nothing like a second request. So in the one itself like one we have the username password then we have like uh authenticate and do authorization authorization part. So in the second step session plus authorization happen right. So in the one part itself of the basic authentication user pass the username password but we don't create an session and when in the same request we do the authorization that's all rest of the flow is same as form based. So go through that then it would be like a piece of cake to understand this. So here let's say that you are hitting an API/ API/ users and in the request and header you are passing username and password. Okay. So one of the security filter chain get invoked. Now what would happen? So when we are using basic authentication the first filter which get invoked is basic authentication filter. This is the filter which will get invoke. What the first thing it will do? I already told you it will decode the authorization header. I have already told you in the code also. So this is the first thing it do. It decode it. Okay. So it decode the authorization header. Now we have here username and password. Plain username password. Now the step is same as the form. It create and pass the authentication object to authentication manager. This authentication object currently hold this username, this password, nothing else. So it has this username, it has this password, nothing else. Authentication is currently false and no more information. Okay. After this authentication manager will delegate the request to DAO authentication manager uh provider. Okay. What DAO will do? So we have the password coming right. So first it has to hash it. So it will call the password encoder. It will call the password encoder and hash the incoming raw password. And after that what it will do is it will fetch the user detail based on the username from the DB. We have created uh user details right at the time of application startup. User password role. So there is already a user created. So that need to be fetched. So in the fifth point it will fetch those detail from user detail service whether from inmemory or DB. Once we get it it will validate the incoming username and password with the same or stored username password. Once matched properly it will update the authentication object. So now same like previously username password yes authenticated is true roles updated to admin. Okay and it will return back to the basic authentication filter. Okay. Now what it will do at ninth step it will save this authentication object which is coming this into a security context and put the security context inside a security context holder. This holder it will put inside this. So this holder is accessible across till controller also. Okay. So we can say that now the complete life cycle of a request this security context would now be available. Okay. If in future you want to fetch whether user is authenticated what it is role you can easily do that. Okay. So now in the basic authentication filter itself we have done everything. We have uh match the username password with the stored one and then put it into the security context holder the authenticated object. Now this is the second filter get invoked is authorization filter. It is also exactly the same as uh what we have done in the form based login. Okay. So it goes to the authorization filter where it says that okay user is authenticated but user has the permission to access the resource or not. So that only we validated it. Okay. So what we need to implement it the flow is very very simple. Okay. After that one the control proceed further to dispatch a sublet. If there is interceptor then it will get invoked otherwise controller. Right. Very very simple. And each and every time request is passed it follows the same thing because for each and every request username and password is coming. So what
