=== Disadvantages of Basic Authentication (1035s - 1184s) ===

Okay, very simple, right? But why it is not used? Why what are the disadvantages of basic authentication? Now you can say that hey this is uh stateless, right? It is good. But what what are the disadvantages? Why it is not popular? So see these are the three main reason which I think it is not very popular is one thing credentials are sent in every request right so that is one of the biggest thing is like if HTTP is not enforced then it can be intercepted and decoded it we have already shown you right it's encoded not encrypted. So one is security reasons right and once the credentials are compromised there is no way you can do it only you have to change the credentials that's the only thing right there is nothing like a session you invalidate the session or token you invalidate the token nothing you have to change the password nothing else another thing is like it is not very feasible that like uh user experience is bad like for each and every request you have to validate authenticate yourself like username password again and again and this makes it not suitable for large scale application. Why? Because it is an extra overhead for first thing is your request size increases even though with some bytes but it will because of you have to pass the authorization header your username your password then you have to encode it and then you have to add it to your request. So some bytes will get added to your already uh the request. So it will increase the request size and extra work like first it has to decode then hashing of the incoming password then fetch username and password from DB existing one and then comparing it. So all this thing has to be done again and again and again. Okay. If your application is accepting 1 billion requests per day. So 1 billion times it has to be done. Okay. And the followup is DB lookup. So now you are passing username password. So for this username we have to fetch it from the DB also like what is the username and password is stored. Then only we do compare right. So DB lookup is also has to be done which increase the latency also. So that's because of all this issues. this is not very popular. Okay. So even though it it is a stateless it's not popular and that's
