=== Securing Actuator Endpoints and controlling access (916s - 1134s) ===

okay security very important part here in that is all these endpoints are generally public okay so like /hel /info/matrix slash whatever the pool jvm these are all public anybody can invoke it if they know your URL and port number. Okay. And these can expose some critical info about your system. You don't want anybody to be get uh call this endpoint. So you have to add security to this endpoint. So we have already covered spring security in depth. Kindly check it out. All we can do is that you have in the dependency you have to add the spring security. Okay. We have already covered if you have already covered spring security you might already know this thing very simple part. So you need a spring security dependency and in the security config we have again I'm saying you if you haven't seen the spring security video you might be seeing this as uh out of the context like what is going on but that's what I mentioned like kindly check it out spring security where we have discussed everything this in depth okay so there we have a filter chain so here I have put that okay only the health and info you can permit everything. Okay. But for any other request you need to authenticate. So even if you don't want to this you can just simply say any request authenticated. Okay. You can choose any authentication JWT for here I am just using basic authentication for testing purpose. Okay. And in application.properties you can provide username password. Again this is just for testing basic authentication. Okay. For more in depth like how security works you can check it out here. So just wanted to highlight that you can secure these endpoints like any request you have to authenticate or you can add more like hey request matcher like any endpoint start with uh slashmanage or slash activator say star any endpoint start with this should has role Let's say admin, you can add this. We have already seen this before how we can do that. But I'm saying that you can reuse those to manage your actuator endpoints that they have some specific roles and they should be properly authenticated before anybody can use it. Okay. So let's say that if I try to use it / env without providing the authentication it will say unauthorized and after providing username and password it able it show me the data okay so before proceeding further if you haven't seen the spring security kindly check it out because uh I'm not covering here because that would be duplicate and it's not a small topic there are total overall nine parts in this on. So spring security is a very big topic. So kindly check it out and this all these things would be clear. So just at here my intention is to just tell that always make sure that in spring security you have a specifically checking that all the actuator endpoints has a specific role checks for authorization and it should be authenticated also.
