=== Overview of other important Actuator Endpoints (612s - 916s) ===

Okay. Similarly, we have so many matrices, right? We have uh /metric endpoint and we have already seen that when you invoke this one, it gives you a list of all the matrices which are available within this. And we can access particular matress like this /matrix/ particular matrix within this. Okay. So there are so many available inside this matrices like JVM do.memory dot use. How much memory currently used by the JVM. So you can get that information. Okay. JVM domemory domax. What is the maximum memory JVM can use? So how you can use this that slashmanage slashmatrix slash right because these slashmatrix slash right because these are all the matrices are present within this endpoint okay so this I want to use this so jvm dot memory dot use so it will give you this info similar you can get garbage collection matrices like JVMGc okay so you can get multiple information that okay total number of GC events occur how many time GC has run total time spent and what is the longest single GC pause observe okay so you can get all this information similarly you can get information regarding your thread your system uh usage uh your request https server request if you use this you can get what is the total number of HTTP requests you have received total time spent handling all all the requests long longest time taken to handle single request. All this information you can get. Okay. So you can play different uh with this different endpoints you will get better information depending upon your need your company what matrix you are interested in. Okay. So there are more like thread dum heap dum. So those information are also available. So another API is like /manage slash thread dump. Okay. So it helps you to diagnose deadlock or thread leaks. Which thread are active, blocked, waiting. Okay. Even the stack trace what code is executing by which thread thread name and everything. So this is output you will get. Hey this is the thread currently. It is the stack trace. Currently it is running this code. it is currently like waiting or blocked or what is the state runnable different thread. So all this information you will get whatever you want. Okay. So this is the official documentation. Okay. Um I will put into the description section also you can use it. It has a list of all the endpoints and based on your company needs and the metrics which you are interested in you can use that. Okay. So you have heapd mappings beans what are beans in your uh spring application is there shutdown okay loggers so many thing okay now only thing specifically I want to mention that this shutdown and heapdom even though we have put a star right you remember exposed all the end points here exposed all the end point a are even after that also you won't be able to hit /shutdown and /hipdom like slashmanage slash shutdown and slashmanage slash heap dump you won't be able to hit it why because they are very critical endpoints when you invoke shutdown it will stop your application when you call the heap dump right it will expose sensitive ative information like some token, password etc. So spring boot want you to take additional you can say that uh measure that hey yes you are totally accepted the risk involved by exposing then these endpoints. So for this you have to specifically me uh mention like this in the property management.point.hipdump Heap dump dot access unrestricted. Currently it's restricted. Similarly for shutdown also management.point dot shutdown do.ac unrestricted. After that only you would be able to access this. Even though you have mentioned start you have to unrestricted manually. It is just way of saying that springboard would saying hey you have accepted the risk involved. Okay. So you can say that with great power actuator provide you great power the responsibility great responsibility also comes
