=== Creating Custom Actuator Endpoints using @ReadOperation, @WriteOperation and @DeleteOperation (1134s - 1616s) ===

This is very important custom actuator endpoints. Okay. So like we have so many endpoint like slash activuator or let's say that we have changed it to slashmanage right. We can add our own custom endpoint here also. How with this annotation add the rate endpoint. Okay. So over the class you just need to annotate at the rate endpoint id equals to whatever the name you will give. So see this example. So I have written one class like my custom stats endpoint any name which you can give and this is a bean. So you have to put add the red component. Now all I have added is add the red endpoint id equals to this is the endpoint I have added my custom stats. So this will become /actuator slash or slashmanage slash this one my custom stats. So this is the new endpoint actuator endpoint I have added. Now now within this class we can either have read operation it's equivalent to get we can have write operation equivalent to post and we can have delete operation equivalent to delete. Okay within this class. So now let's say that within this class I have exposed the endpoint I am adding read operation two read operation. So one is I am adding a method public string read all and I'm just returning hello spring boot. Okay. So now I have annotated with add the rate read operation. So this is a get. So if you hit a get request slash activuator or slashmanage whatever slash this endpoint my custom stats that's all. And this is a get call. So which method it will invoke? It will invoke this method. Okay. So it will return hello spring boot. Similarly I have added another method add annotated with add the read operation. But here if you see that I have added some selectors. Selector is more like after this one we can provide certain you can say that placeholder for that for name I can have let's say shan share message hello okay so you can say that after this your end point after this your end point these are selectors selector one selector two selector three which are in sequence and it should be matched with it in sequence Okay. So now I have let's say /actuator slash my custom strat slash I have put shriange. So this get mapped to this one. Hello. This get mapped to this one. Okay. So two selectors. So it will pick a method and it's a get. So it pick a read operation method and has two actuator uh two selectors. So this method will get invoked. And yes, one more thing we have to add before running is so this is the custom endpoint we have to expose it also. Okay. So you you if you are using selected one health comma info comma you have to provide here also otherwise you can just simply put a star it will automatically get exposed. Okay. Now if I just hit /manage uh because I have override /actuator so I'm using /manage slash my custom stat so this is a get call and no selector so this method will get invoked hello spring boot now I am calling /manage/ my custom endpoint now this is selector one selector two so it will pick one get so this is get call right it will pick some get read operation method which has two selector matching it name message is both are string so it will get invoked. Okay. Similarly we have write operation and delete operation. Okay. So this is post this is delete. Okay. So return type can be anything. It return type at anywhere you can have either string primitive pojo whatever you want to return. Okay. So write operation is also no difference in that. Delete operation no difference in that. You can even have selectors also like this I'm using. So I have a refresh method annotated with write. So any endpoint which is invoking post slashmanage or activator slash my custom stats. So this is a post no selectors. So it will see that which method with right operation matches it. So this will get matched and this code will get executed. Similarly, if it is a delete http method and /manage slash my custom stat and the selector is like key my key. So it will see that okay delete. So it will look for all the method which are annotated with delete and then it will try to match the selector. So one selector only which is string matched this will get executed. Okay. And also very important that spring boot considered this write and delete operation very critical. Okay. So it requires authentication for that one. If you have writing a custom endpoint and you are using write operation and delete operation right then springboard say that hey these are critical means it is changing something post and delete okay so it is specifically want that you should have authentication for it so you can just simply add the same security filter any request you want it to be authenticated that's all okay for if you are just using get read operation even though you are not adding security you would be able to hit properly. Okay. But if you are using write and delete operation specifically you have to make sure that these endpoints actuator endpoints or specifically let's say this where the write and delete operations are present on this endpoint at least this should be authenticated. Okay. And again you have to make sure that you include this okay or expose this or use star okay and uh if you see that now if you're calling post my custom stat you have to provide username password because it has to be authenticated it got invoked similarly delete this endpoint and one selector so it will match the method you have to provide username password because we are authenticating here basic Basic authentication. Okay. So, reset done. It work. Okay. Very important part. This is very important. Adding a new custom endpoint actuator endpoint is very important because this is used by a lot frameworks. Let's say that even the refresh scope okay in the centralized configuration that also uses it. We will see that later but I'm just want to say that lot of spring frameworks uses this functionality that they expose an endpoints and if we call them it do something okay and uh those endpoints are supported through this actuator endpoints custom endpoints.
