=== Introduction (0s - 308s) ===

Hey guys, Shan this said welcome back to the channel and today in spring boot we are going to cover actuator. So let's start without wasting any time. Actuator provide production ready endpoints to monitor and manage the spring boot application. Okay, how let's say that whatever the project you have all you need to add is your actuator dependency. Okay, if you are creating a fresh project just add this dependency also. Internally it brings this spring - booty starter - actuator to your pom.xml. Okay. And if you already have the project setup just add this dependency. Okay. Once the dependency is set now if you see the application.properties there are two major property. Okay. So this one is al optional. First one is optional. management.endpoints.base dot base path. Okay, so base path. So I use /manage. I told you it's optional. If I don't use it, the base path would be /actuator. Okay. So activator provide production ready endpoints. There are so many endpoints. So you can say that this is the base path. So there would be like slash after that there would be metric name. There are so many. But base is this /actuator/metric name. Okay. But since I have overrided it because I don't want to use /actuator, I want my personalized. So I use /manage. Okay. But this is optional. Another property is also you can say that optional management.endpoints.exposure.incclude. So currently I have put a star means all the matrices all the matress endpoints are exposed. Okay. If I told you that it's an optional if it is not added if this property is not added only health and info these two endpoints are visible. Okay you would be able to invoke only these two endpoints others are not. So if you want only selected then you can use comma separated here like health comma info endpoint comma metrics endpoint comma loggers endpoint likewise but for testing purpose we want to enable all the endpoints so I put a star here okay but if you this is also an optional if you don't add it only these two endpoints you would be able to hit okay so that's all we have added the dependency in application.properties properties we have added and generally both are optional and we are just starting our application and our application is started now if you see that I am hitting this endpoint /manage/halth so this is the base one instead of / activator I have changed it to /manage in application.property property and this is /halth. Now it give me this it means that my server is up and running. Okay. So it give me certain in data information. Similarly there is another endpoint /metric. If I invoked it like /manage this is my base /metric. Okay. What it return? it return me all the end points which are currently available within this matrix. Okay. So let's say that I pick one of this endpoint. So I have to call like slash manage this is the base. Okay. Slashmatrix because we are going to use this one and one we are going to use one of the matrix of which are present inside this /matrix and we are using this one executor.pool.core. So /manage/metric/executor.pool.core. So it returns me like what all the threadpool executors are present and what's the thread pool size. Okay. So likewise you see that there are lot more matrices available for JVM for your CPU process for your server. Okay. for your thread pool executor. You can get lot more information about your system. Okay. So let's see some useful inbuilt actuator endpoint. So these are also an inbuilt only but this is just to show the demo like okay how you can add actuator within your project. Very simple. All you need is your dependency. You have to enable or expose the endpoints which you have to use. This is optional. If you don't use it, you have to use /actuator as a base path. If you want, you can give some meaningful name like /manage. Okay. And you are able to hit the end points. So there are so many endpoints like
