=== Exploring the Health Endpoint and adding custom health metrics (308s - 612s) ===

/halth. Now let's further deep into this because this is very important one. So by default it provide the health status of our application whether it's up down out of service unknown. Okay currently our app is up and running so that's why it is giving up. So here if you see that we can even extend to add additional check. So apart from so let's say that my requirement is that hey okay my application is up and running my Tomcat is up and running but I also want to check like hey what about my DB is it up and running or not what about the cache what about the my message broker so once if all of this are up then only I want to make my system up if any of them is down it should be down okay so that also you can extend ended. Okay. So very simple in this one let's say that I am adding DB functionality into the health itself. Okay. So this is something that I am writing a class database health indicator. This is the class name which I have given. You can give any name. All you have to do is you have to implement health indicator. This health indicator interface is for this slash endpoint / health endpoint. Okay. So we have to provide an implementation for this health method. So since it is database so you can have your custom logic here to check whether the DB is up or not. So here for now I am just returning true. But in the production we can simulate like by checking whether that I'm able to query DB or not. Okay. So for now let's say I am returning true that yes my DB is up. So if it DB is up I am making health dot up. Okay for the DB. So for each one there is a health for each one there is a health. So I'm making its health up. Okay. And also I have added the message like DB available. If it is not available I am making the health down and with message like DB not available. Similarly for cache I am doing another class cache health indicator which implements health indicator implemented the health method. Check the cache status. And now here if you notice that I specifically made it false. Okay, just for testing purpose. Now if the cache is up, I can make cache health. So it health is up or down whatever we are doing. So for now it is false. So it would be health dot down with message like cache not available. Okay. So now if you hit this /manage/help okay you will see that hey got a status down hey why why only this one where is this message DB available or cache not available and why down so see the above status one is aggregated one aggregated one and inside this it has multiple so where we have DB we have cache. Okay. So when all are up, when everything is up, then only the above status is up. If any one of the sub component or submetric you can say that is down, the above one is down also. Okay. So but you can say that okay that is understood but where is the information? I'm not able to see my DB and this cache which I have added. Okay. I know that this is down because for the cash one I have specifically made false and for cash it is down. So that's why my overall aggregated is down also. But where is the information? See by default health only show this much above status. But if you want a complete details also we have to add this management.point Endpoint dot health show hyphen details equals to always. By default it's never. Okay. Once you add this application.properties and hit it again. Okay. Now here if you see the details are added. Cache details. We make it the status down specifically. And this is the info cache not available. For database it's up and detail is DB available. And since once subservice is down, the overall status is down.
