=== Integrating Spring Boot Actuator with Datadog for monitoring (1616s - 1852s) ===

Now one more important thing is hey I got it actuator help us to provide the metrics and these metric we can push to monitoring platform you can you know that there are so many monitoring platform one of the very popular is data dog another is prometheus cloudatch I think cloudatch is from Amazon okay so there are so many monitoring platforms available so we can push this data to this monitoring platform also. So how see this might not be needed but this is you can say that in the companies they are using it. Okay. So to understand the actuator you can say that you can skip it but I would say that within a company definitely you might be using some monitoring platform for your application. there you will see that internally how it actually your application is putting the data into your monitoring platform. So now let's say in the data doc I'm using data talk and currently I took a free trial of it. Now in this one I goes to my this profile and here if you see that there is something called API keys within the API keys I created a new key and copied it. Now in the application.properties I just added this management dot data dog dot matrix dot export dot API key and I added this API key. Okay. So this is since this is a testing profile. Okay. So that's why I'm adding it here. But it's never recommended to add a key like this in the application.properties. Either add it into environment variable. But this is a profile just for testing. Okay. So you can uh add key I added the key like this here. Okay. Another thing is you have to enable the export true means that you are allowing the spring boot to push the data to the data do. Okay. And another is that in which frequency spring boot has to push the data. So I put 5 second means every 5 second it will push the metric to the data dog and yes you need to add the dependency also. So I added the dependency micrometer - registry data dog. So this dependency I have added okay and I added this application.properties properties and in the data doc profile you have created the key use that key here very simple okay now all the metrics of a spring boot actuator now automatically push to the data dog if you open a data dog and here you'll see metrics okay so here in the same one you will see the metrics right so if you click the metric you will see summary explore volume and within a summary you will see a list of matrices. So I open just one matrix like http.server request count if I open it you able to see certain graphs now. So every time I invoke my application it's like a request I making a request. So it is like a count graph is that those datas get published to data dog and this you will get certain graphs to visualize and monitor. Okay. So if you check out this summary you will see like so many hundred of uh matrices. You can choose the matric which you want to monitor and you can see your application health. Okay. Try it out. It's very interesting like and lot of learning. Okay. But if you still have any doubt let me know. We can discuss further. Okay guys. Thank you. Bye.
