=== filter processing node (490s - 855s) ===

filter. So I want you to do a hands-on. I will explain it here. Very very simple. Okay. In the previous one where we have done the source, we have already seen in the architecture also we have already set up complete setup. We have done we have read the read the data from the Kafka topic. We have also seen the sync we are uh seen that records are going or published into the Kafka topic also end to end we have seen. So now I will tell you different processing nodes we can have and how to read this method so that you don't get confused. The first is filter. Filter keeps only the record that satisfy a condition. If the condition return true, the records continue in the stream. If the condition return false, the record is dropped. What does it mean? So stream now you know you have multiple stages. Okay. Now let's say the record comes in and this is let's say my filter greater than 1,000 and somewhere this record which is coming it has amount let's say 200 only. So if this filter returns true then only it will proceed further into the stream whether here here or both otherwise this will get dropped here itself. It don't proceed further into the pipeline itself. That's what this definition says. Now here if you see the filter method so now here if you go now let's say we have already read it. So this one we have already seen. Okay. So builder dot stream. So we are trying to read the record from this Kafka topic. The output here over here is K stream. Okay. Now let's say we want a filter. So orders. So what I'm doing from where from which stage I have to add this filter currently at this we have Kstream orders. Okay. Now where I have to add a filter on top of this, right? So consider this as a stage. So I am using here building it here orders dot filter. Okay. So if you go inside this just read this. Okay. So here if you see filter predicate go inside this predicate. If you have if you have a Java background pretty much sure because in Java I have already covered this functional interface and this generics clearly. So there should not be any doubt. So now here if you see that when we invoke a filter method okay so this predicate is a functional interface. So we have to provide an implementation for this. So what does it implementation takes? Two parameter K which is a key V which is a value. Okay. Then you will we will write our own logic and output is boolean true or false. Okay. After this predicate the output is the same K stream KV key and value. Okay. So the same thing the predicate is over this. So we have to provide an implementation for this one. That's what I have done here. So here if you see order I am using from this stage I am building I am adding another filter processing node. So dot filter. Now dot filter parameter is predicate and this predicate is a functional interface which has this method. We have to provide an implementation of this. So two parameter I take key and value. Key and value. Okay. So this is just any parameter name you can give key and value and you can provide an implementation for it whatever the filter you want to add. So order right. So order dot get total amount greater than 1,000. Okay. So I have written my logic this should be greater than 1,000. So this should return true. Okay. So I have written my logic here. And ultimately this filter if it return true then it will add it. It will further send this k stream. The same part the K stream string order the same. Okay. Whatever we have it return the same thing. Whatever the key value original from where we are building right whatever the K stream key and value is there the same thing it returns also. Got it? So our processing node is filter amount greater than 1,000. So this is our processing nodes. But this K stream now act as a reference to the filter processing node. So currently our it was orders. Okay. So here it was pointing to source read from the topic. Now in the pipeline I have added a filter from this order itself. Okay. And this is also a K stream. This is also a K stream. Now in future if you add another filter. So now you have two K stream here this and this. Now let's say if you have to add it from here so use this K stream. Okay. So it would be like here another filter. But if you have to use this K stream it would be like beneath this. So you got now the purpose of K stream. K stream do not hold data. It is just an stage in the pipeline. Okay. So that we can continue build the topology.
