=== spit/branch processing node (1386s - 1692s) ===

The another is a split branch. Now here if you see the problem with the below code whatever we have seen filter right now let's say order currently at this point of let's say this is stage in the pipeline is this is orders K stream now from this from this order I have written orders dot filter one I have created one filter filter greater than 1,000 So this is another case stream. Okay. So I have written another case stream low value order dot filter less than equals to,000. So from this order itself order I have another filter less than equals to,000. This is also case stream low value orders. This is high value orders. Now let's say a order comes in okay a record comes in currently what would happen so this will it will check both both the filter okay hey can I go here filter greater than th000 let's say it is u 200 so it will go here hey can I go to this path greater than thousand. No. Okay. But at parallel it can also go to this pipeline also. Hey can I go to this less than equals to the n? Yes. So it will proceed further down this line. But the important point which I wanted to mention that both the conditions are validated. So if you have certain condition that both get true then your record flow into both. Okay, the same record goes into both. For example, just take filter person equals to employee filter person equals to wise principal. So now when the record comes in it will check hey person is employee yes. Now it will also check because both the condition will check. Person is vice principal. Yes, he's an a person is an employee also and it's a vice principal. So this condition is also true. So it will go here also. So got it. My point here is that when we have two filters okay for each record both the filters will get executed. So above approach is okay when a record can move in both the direction. else. Why for every record we need both filters to be checked? If you have a scenario like this or this then this is something like extra work we are doing for every record both the filters we are executing it. That's where split branch comes in. It's like if else if else if and else branch like we have a chaining right? If else if else if else if and else last else the same thing. So here if you see you can simply do this orders dotsplit you can now have split this is the orders now split multiple branches. So this or this or this or so if anything get true the other conditions will not even checked. So dotsplit dot branch. So first branch I'm checking. So again key value. Now whatever the condition you have just check it. Just give this branch as name. Let's say I give it a name premium. Great. Amount is total greater than 2,000. I give this branch a name premium. Now another dot branch key value. Your logic. Let's say greater than,000. I give this branch a name high. Otherwise the default branch is low. So I I have just created three branch. One is premium, one is high, another is low. Okay. Now we can get a stage for this all three. So Kstream premium order branches dot get use the name premium you will get a K stream. Branches.get high you will get a Kstream. Branches.get low you will get a Kstream. Now these are like a reference point. So if from further branch let's say from high branch you have to build something you can use this high orders dot something. Got it? But this is like or condition. If this condition get true premium one high and low will not get executed. So it's like an if else if else change not all condition will get executed. Similarly we have merge. Merge is just
