=== Introduction (0s - 490s) ===

I said welcome back and today in Kafka stream we are going to cover this processors. So before I proceed further I just want to make sure that we are all on the same page that we have a good understanding of Kafka stream architecture because if that is not clear you would find Kafka stream too much difficult. Okay. So I assume that you have already seen the architecture video and we are in line that all we have to is write topology. Okay. So all we have to write is topology and topology has this three main parts source processor and sync. So consider this as a part of topology. So I have already covered the source where we have discussed about K stream and K table. Okay. So how to read? So starting point how to read record from the Kafka topic. Now let's discuss about processors. So processor is of two type stateless and stateful. Okay. And again if you have already seen the architecture this thing might have already been cleared. Okay. But still let's proceed one level more deeper. So first let's see stateless and in the second part we'll go with the stateful. So a stateless node process each record independently. Okay. So now let's say that in your Kafka topic you have record one, record two, record three, record four. Then you have written a topology Kafka stream topology in which you have written source let's say then processors and sync each record you can say that it goes through this pipeline and they are processed independently mean when let's say record two is getting processed this topology has no information about previous records like one I have no information. Okay. So it does not remember anything from previous records. So these are some of the very important stateless operation filter map value select key split branch merge. So let's see quickly but let's understand one thing which I'm going to tell you which will help you to u view this topology in a better way. Okay. So here if you see you have a source or you can say that you have a topic from topic you read okay you have a let's say one node everything in a topology in a topology everything is let's say node now some nodes are like a source node which read from the topic some nodes are processing nodes like stateful, stateless. Some nodes are like sync. So consider everything as node. Okay. So this is your source node and you know that this output generally K stream or K table. We have already seen that part. Now after that now whatever the operation let's say we do a filter. Now so filter is also your node. let's say okay certain processing node so this filter let's say returns K stream also so now here if you see generally engineer get confused that okay from this is the topic Kafka topic from where I am trying to read I get an output Kafka stream let's say now on top of it I did a filter let's say greater than thousand I again got a Kafka stream so what is this is it like a different object is it hold the records. So the easy way to understand is let's say this diagram. So from a source okay then you got a K stream. So you read the record from the so this is the let's say topic Kafka topic okay and the source has read the record from the topic Kafka topic and output is k stream now from this k stream let's say I have built multiple filters filter greater than equals to th00and it's output is let's say again a kstream object which I'm saying high order and filter less 10,000 it return kream object let's say I give it a name low order now how do you read this kind of a diagram consider that topology as a tree okay so you start from where multiple branches you can go okay this point then this point from this branch you can go to this side this side okay so considered these K streams K stream or if it return K table consider those this point okay now suppose you have to add another branch from which point you have to add okay let's say I want to create a new branch or new filter from this branch so let's say this branch or this point is this Kstream object reference. So from here I can add another filter let's say. So that will return another Kstream object. Okay. So I added one more branch that's again I got a Kstream object. So consider this Kstream as a reference to a point in your topology. Okay. So that at any particular point you go and add your another processing node. Got it? And completely together it is like a pipeline. So when any record comes it goes through your complete pipeline. So it's uh your K stream doesn't hold object. That's the easiest way to understand. The K stream doesn't hold object. So if you see multiple K stream does not mean that your same object is hold by multiple objects. No just assume K stream as like in a particular topology. Consider this k stream as a different points so that if in future you have to add more fil or more processing nodes just take a reference of a particular k stream particular point and you can add your logic there okay things will get more clear I tried to explain at this point of but still if you have any doubt don't worry as we proceed further things will get more clear what I'm trying to Okay. So think Kstream as Kstream represent a stage in the processing pipeline. It does not contain data. Multiple Kstream object allows to continue building the topology from different stage at the same pipeline. So this is the same pipeline. Okay. And these are different stages points you call it points stages. Okay. Or K stream object reference. So you can add your logic another processing node at any stage. Let's say at this or at this. Okay. So if this is clear, let's go with the first stateless operation which is
