=== map, mapValues and SelectKey processing node (855s - 1386s) ===

So filter is clear. The second is map. Map transform the record into another record. So let's say we have a key, we have a value. So using map we can either change key, we can either change value or we can either change both. Okay. So how to use a map? So this is the map method. Okay. So now if you see map what is the parameter it takes if you see the parameter it look little complex but slowly if you analyze one by one open the key value mapper so let's see that also just open anything okay so what does this map take key value mapper so now open key value mapper so again it's a functional interface So we have to provide an implementation for this method. The parameter is key. Okay. And uh another parameter is value v key k and v. Okay. So the first two parameter this k v. So this is your k key. This is your v value. Now after whatever we process the output we return is this third parameter which this take. What is this third parameter? V R. So here if you see the third is this key value. So uh this is key this is value and now here if you see key value. So this is the key value pair complete. Okay. So this is the output. What is the key? What is the value? So we are returning the key value pair. Okay. So here if you see how I am using it orders do map. Okay. So in map we have a key value mapper. Now key value mapper we have to provide an implementation for this. So it has two parameter key and value. So two parameter key comma order key and value that's we are building on orders right so order has this key and this is value okay now we what whatever the logic you have to do change the key change compute the value whatever you have to do what is the output the output of this implementation is VR this VR is nothing but a third parameter on this key value mapper this is one this is two and this is three so we have to return a key value. So we have to return a new key new value. So key value pair dot pair this is our new key order key. Okay. And the value I am returning order only. So no change in value whatever the earlier it has an order I am whatever the order I have previously I'm still returning but I change the key. I just added order hyphen. So you can change only key you can change only value. You can change both. All you have to is understand this how to use this methods. Okay. So got it. And now the output of this ultimately is Kstream KR, VR your new key new value. Okay. So my new key new value. Currently new key is still a string. So it's still a string and the new values are still an order or still order. But it can be changed also. Got it? So currently if the input record was this now after this map the input record would be order hyphen whatever the key 101 and this order got it. So like map is used to change either key or value or both. Similarly, we have only map values. Only value can be changed. No key change is allowed. Okay. So, that is also possible. So, here I think you can now read it. Like if I open map values, let's open it. Map values. Let's open it. Now, here if you see what what how you would be a how would you read this? So map values parameter it take is value mapper go inside this value mapper. So we have to provide an implementation for this and it take your only v. Okay. So only value it takes and what the output you get the new value the old value it takes and returns the new value. Okay. And ultimately your output is K stream old key new value that's the same thing order map values the old value your old value order. Now how you want to compute a new value totally up to you. You creating a totally new object but only thing is we have to return the new value. It could be of anything. Okay. And whatever you will send output is K stream the old key but the new value which you are returning. Okay. Similarly we have select key only key change is allowed. No value is no value is changed. Okay. So if you have only keys change then use this select key. So orders dot select key. Now if you open select key can you read this? Now go inside key value mapper. So key comm, v. So two parameter it takes the output it take is vr. The third one what is this third parameter it takes? So we have a key, we have a value and here if you see KR whatever the third output we will return that would be added as a KR and KR is used in your key ultimately. Okay. So two parameter take your old key old value. Now whatever you have to do find out the new key. Okay. whatever the new key is. So, K stream is your new key old value. Okay. So, now see this the method map. Can we change the key? Yes. Can we change the value? Yes. And if you remember from the architecture video, if the key is changed, okay, then repartition can be initiated. Can you recall what repartition is? It create a totally new repartition topic so that all the keys all the records with the new key goes to the same topic. If you have any doubt with this repartition, I would highly encourage kindly check out the rearchite uh architecture video. In that kindly check the repartition part, okay, it will get clear. But remember that at this point of time repartition do not happen but you can say that it is eligible for repartition. I will tell you exactly when the repartition will happen. But at this point of time when a key is changed when a key is changed then it is eligible for repartition. Okay. Map values keys change no value change yes. Is it eligible for repartition? No. Because key is not changed. Similarly select key. Key issue change no. Eligible for repartition later yes. So whenever a key is changed repartition can happen in future and I will tell you how. So the same thing when key is changed it does not initiate the repartition immediately. Repartition initiated when downstream operation require record to be partitioned by the new key whenever it is required. Generally by this two operation it happen group by key or join. Okay. So check this video Kafka stream architecture there I have told you about this subtopology where it create a repartition topic and everything I have already explained in depth like whatever the uh knowledge I have regarding this repartition. Okay with this things will get clear to you.
