=== What is Fixed Interval Retry and Thundering Heard Problem? (551s - 789s) ===

important part. So let's see first types of retry and when and then we will see how to implement it also. So first is fixed interval retry. So what does fixed interval retry says that retry after a constant delay. So within each retry the delay is constant. So say that the attempt total attempt is four. So when we say total attempt means original one call plus three retries. So total four. Okay. So after original call there has to be a fixed delay like let's say my fixed delay is 2 second. So it would be like after 2 seconds first retry will happen. Then it will wait for 2 second then second retry will happen. Then it will wait for 2 seconds then third retry will happen. So there is a fixed interval of delay within the retries. So let's say this is the original call which happened at two. So first uh retry happen at four. Then second retrive will six. Third retrive at eight. So each one has two two seconds gap say. So advantage of this is it is very very simple easy to configure and debug also. But this is main this disadvantage is that higher chance of retry storm which is also known as thundering her problem. Thundering her problem mean many clients retry at the same time causing a surge of retry traffic and system spend resources on retries instead of handling new request. So understand with this is that say that you have a load balancer and you have let's say component service A service A multiple instances instance one instance two instance three and load balancer distribute the traffic between the instances of service A there are so many clients client one client N and the traffic is also huge now let's say that a buggy code has been introduced into the service A and it start throwing some exception and if client start doing retry also is already it's a heavy traffic and for that they are all started doing retry at a fixed delay so all are retrying so original request let's say there are thousand request original now after 2C delay Okay, retry one will happen. Okay. So everyone will do retry 1 th00and requests again after 2 second delay retry two they again do a retry. Okay. So these are just retry traffic. Whatever the normal traffic new request is coming that is different. So means your system is now get bombarded with the retry traffic. And it is possible that while you are only servicing retry traffic, you somehow declined the new request which is coming. That is also possible. Okay. So I if you remember like in the HLD playlist I have already covered thundering her problem like it is one of the frequently asked interview question. So if you want to know more about thundering earth problem you can check it out. But yeah this is one of the disadvantage is that if all the clients retry at the same interval it is possible that the retry traffic become huge and it can cause thundering her problem. So fixed interval is clear then we have exponential back off. So what does
