=== When to Retry? (222s - 551s) ===

When to retry? First of all is do not retry on permanent failures. Permanent failures is like no matter how many times you will retry, it will always fail like 4xx errors. So 4xx errors generally are in the category of validation error. Validation error. Validation error means the input request input request which client has passed has is not correct until unless client will not change the input validation error will not remove. So if you retry with the same request previously again you will see a validation error. So generally these are known as permanent failure. 4xx do not retry if operation is nonidopatent. What doesopetent means? So idopotent see make sure that if request is retried multiple times duplicate processing will not happen. So say you have a service A which invokes the create API of service B. Okay. So it has invoked it and while service B write it into its DB but it takes certain time okay and here it say that timeout happen and timeout happens. So for service A the request has been timeout but service B internally inserted the row into the DB. Now since this is a timeout and user has retried so this is a retrieded again. Now here service B insert the row again ID2 earlier it was already inserted ID 1 now it is ID2 so here this is not my intention my intention was not to create a duplicate row for the same request okay so we can say that this this API the API of the service B this create API is not idopent okay so that's why we say that do not retry if operation is nonidopent Otherwise you will end up in creating duplicate resources. So if you don't know how to design idotent APIs I have already covered it into the highle design playlist uh in depth like what are the challenges how we can come up with the adoptent API design. So have a look uh in case you have a doubt. Okay. So but here one thing is we don't have to retry if operation is nonopertent. The third is that rule of thumb says that retry only on 5xx error. What 5xx error says that it is system error. Your input request input request is good. Okay. All validation passed but there is some limitation in system or some issue happen in the system because of that error has happened. So generally these are considered as retriable error. Okay. So it is safe to retry on this because this is first of all system error and also it says that it request is not successful means the previous request 5s means request is not successful. Okay. So that is also one give us a you can say that u relief that yeah previous request is not successful and we can retry as many times. So there is no harm. Okay. And 5xs already know that input request is correct. No validation errors but there is some issue with the system. So with retry it is possible that it might get resolved. So that is one and another thing is retry network uh network error and timeout error we have to retry but only make sure that whatever the API it should support adoptency. So this is a retry decision table like based on HTTP code you can decide whether you have to retry or not. So these are not complete list just an idea let's say 200 request is already success you don't have to retry like 400 bad request unauthorized forbidden 404 not found so these are you can say that validation error no matter how many times you will retry you will always get retribal failure uh failure itself right so you don't have to retry on this so 4 to9 you can say that one of the exception like 4 to9 9 means too many requests. So it generally happen when the rate limiting. So for that we can do retry with some delay. Then we have 500 internal server error. 502 bad gateway 503 service unavailable. These are like uh you can say that retryable issue like service unavailable. Maybe it was down and if you retry it might be up and it request can get succeeded. So for all this we can do retry and if there is a network error timeouts you can always retry yes but make sure that it should be idopent. Okay so this is just a quick glance that based on http status code you decide whether the retry can be done or not. Now how to retry? So see this is very
