=== What is Exponential Backoff Retry? (789s - 1027s) ===

exponential back off says that delay increases exponentially. So currently earlier you are delaying at this time then this time then this time not at fixed rate not after 2 seconds this is 2 second not at fixed so it increase with the time and this is the formula for it. So the formula says that you pick some base delay that yeah minimum base delay is my 100 millisecond into two raised to power this is a factor you can say that this is also configurable factor raised to power number of failed retry attempt. Okay so consider that total attempt is four means one original call and three retries and my base is 100. So the formula says that the first retry will so let's say original call happen at uh 0 0 millcond say so first retry will happen at 100 which is our base delay into and the factor which I have given is let's say this factor I have given is two for now 2 raised to power previous number of failed retry attempt currently this is the first retry itself so zero no retry attempt has failed. So currently it is zero. So this is first retry happen at so original call happen at 0 millisecond. First retry will happen at 100 millisecond. Second retry will happen at 100 base into whatever the factor you have told. Let's say I have told two raised to power number of failed retry attempt. So till now only one retry attemp failed. So it's one. So retry will happen at 200 millisecond. Third retry will happen at 100 into 2 to power number of failed retry time two till now two retry has been done. So 2^ 400 millisecond. So now here is if you see the delay time is exponentially increases 100 200 400 next you will see 800 like this. So advantage is that it reduce the load on downstream service during outage. Let's say that this service become down. this service become down. If we increase the delay, they also get some breathing time to recover it. Unnecessary. If you put the load of the retry also plus the original request also the it might take some more time to recover for the component and it also helps to avoid thundering her problem to some extent. Right? Since they are not returning at a constant time it delays. So thundering her heart problem you can say that uh to some extent it reduces. But does it reduce fully? No. There is still risk of thundering her because see this is the formula. What if your base is my base all the client select the same base and same factor then they will retry at the same time itself. So there is because there is no randomness right. So there is a still a chance of thundering her problem and also if outage period is short user might wait some longer time. So let's say that this shortage is resolved at 500 millisecond. After 500 millcond this outage was resolved but after 400 millisecond the delay was 800 only after that it will retry. So there is even though the issue was resolved it still added some latency right the outage period is short user might wait longer than needed. So this is one of the disadvantage.
