=== Implementation of Fixed Interval Retry (1217s - 1723s) ===

fixed interval. How you can do that? This is same controller. This is faint client interface. controller is invoking the order service invoke product API. This service it is invoking. Now here if you see I have put at the rate retry com uh annotation on top of this method. One thing remember is always use retry on a top of method the logic which you want to retry. So I only want to retry this my downstream call. Let's say if you have some lot of business logic here everything will get retry. If you have a DB call that will also get retry. So please double check double verify where you are putting this retry. What all logic are there inside that method because that will get executed. Okay. So I have used at the rate retry annotation. Give it a name fallback method. like after all the retry got failed ultimately this fallback method will get invoked. Okay. Now in the application.properties here if you see I have defined the configuration resilience 4j retry instances product service. This is the name I have given. Maximum attempt is three and resilience 4j retry instances product service wait duration is 2 seconds. So now here if you see that I haven't told which type to use whether it has to use fixed delay exponential back off or with jitterness because by default it is fixed interval by default which resilience 4j uses retries fixed interval. Okay and maximum at time we have defined is three and weight duration is 2 seconds. So it will wait 2222 seconds. Now you can you can easily test it. If you want to test it, you can easily test it that uh so here in this one I have just put uh try catch block and in the catch I have put not able to invoke product API. So I'm invoking the product API right? I haven't started it server itself. I haven't started server. So definitely it will fail. Not able to invoke product. So I have just put this not able to invoke product and let's see that how many times it will retry it. So if you see this what is the configuration we have put three mean one original call and two retry. So if you see this first time this is the original call which happened at 2056 not able to invoke then it wait for 2 seconds because this is the delay period we have defined into this wait duration 2 seconds. So it happened at 20 5612. So 2 second delay first retry happened again failed. After that second retry happened at 25614 again 2C second delay fixed interval delay not able to invoke and all the retries finished and then it says that product service is busy this is our fallback method make sense and uh this thing I already told you that this thing you can have multiple milliseconds seconds minute you can even go 500 ms milliseconds So in that also millisecond also you can set the values. Now how internally this might be working. So see here as we already know resilience 4j totally relies on AOP and AOP generates the proxy code right it generates write the code. So for this retry what code it might have written. So see this is the code it EOP might have written. I am not sure but AOP because generate the code during runtime you can't uh debugging is difficult on that runtime code generation part but this is the uh framework which retry uses it so it has multiple parts so consider as three part first part is interval function second is retry config third is retry object. So retry function is the function where your delay logic resides. If you open this class ret interval function, you will see so many functions. Uh you will see so many methods. One is off and you have just wait time. So that is for fixed delay. Then there is something called exponential back off. So that is for exponential backoff uh retry. So for certain it's already written. We don't have to have written this formula by ourself. So inside interval function class if you go you will find different methods. uh one method for exponential back off, one method for uh fixed delay, one method for jitterness and they have their logic how to compute the delay next delay. So that is first thing. So we have to have one interval function method where we write our delay logic. Generally this would be we have to implement it only in case we have to write for custom logic. But in case if you are using already present one then we just need to call that which method internally. Then second is retry config like here we set the configurations like uh attempt attempt number equals to four. Then wait time something something. So all the configuration generally we will put it here. And then is retry object. From this config a retry object is created which will be used to do the retry. we so if you see that we don't have to do anything we just do this AOP writes the code what I am saying is what AOP how AOP might be doing this or computing this code so now this is the part so first it is getting retry config dot custom it is setting the configuration let's say max attemp was four that's what we have defined here right in the configuration max attempt 3 4 like these are the configuration I mean right so you can say max attemp four interval function which interval function you have to call so let's say I am using fixed interval okay so it will call this method interval function dot off so I have defined delay is 2 seconds so this method takes interval function dot of 2 seconds it is in millisecond generally it takes Okay. Then on what all exceptions you have to retry on what all exceptions you have to retry you can add it here also. Okay. And uh finally you do build. So you got the retry config and from that retry config retry do. You can create an object of the retry. Just give whatever the name you wanted to give your retry and this config. So it will create an object from this config retry config. Okay. So first thing is the interval function method which has to be invoked. So how AOP knows that which one by default is in the configuration by default is fixed interval and we haven't tell anything explicitly that we want that. So by default it take fixed interval one configuration we have already provided what is the max time and what is the wait time. Okay and even the retry what on on what on exceptions you want to retry right that also we can define in the config. So this is how internally it might be doing it. So let's see exponential back off. So
