=== Implementation of Exponential Backoff Retry (1723s - 1986s) ===

all same only configuration changes. See this code we don't have to write this will return by AOP. So this is just for understanding purpose what AOP might be doing it inside. So this retry thing nothing changed. So we still on whatever method you have to do a retry please double check on that you have to write this annotation. The only thing change is that our configuration. So here if you see for exponential backoff these are the configuration we have to give. So see if you go into the back of Java class this is the formula they have written the same thing what we have written right initial weight time into whatever the factor 2 3 raised to power number of failed retry attempt. So this is the formula they have written in their back of Java class also. This is a framework class you can check it. So maximum attempt is four original plus three retry. Okay. Wait duration is first second. So weight duration this is the initial weight time. So 1 second is my initial weight time. Enable exponential backoff true because this is not the default uh strategy for retry. Right? So that's why I'm explicitly saying hey enable the exponential backoff. True. What is the factor you want to use? Exponential back off multiplier is two. I want 2 raised to power. If you make it three it would be like 3 to power. Okay. So this is this factor part. So this is your formula going to be so first retry after let's say original happen at 0 second. The first retry will happen at initial is 1 second. So let's say 1,000 millisecond into what is the factor we told 2 raised to power number of failed retry at time currently is zero. So after first second the first retry will happen second will happen and after 2 second third will happen at 4 second like this. So actually we are going with zero in the formula they have just says that iteration minus one. So retry iteration generally. So currently it is the first retry. So that's why it started with zero. No retry has failed failure till now. The same thing different way to understand like how you can remember it. So let's analyze the output here. If you see that what is the maximum attempt we have told four means one original and three retry. So if you see that original call happen at 212240 then it does the first retry at 212241 second delay. After that it do a second retry at 43 2cond delay. Then the third retry 47 4 secondond delay and since all the ret attempts finished four attemp finish our fallback method executed. Okay. So this is how exponential backup works and if you see the AOP generated code you actually you can't see if you just try to analyze it again the three part first is interval function we have to tell so internally since we have make this true enable exponential backup. Now AOP might be adding this method of interval function exponential not random there is another method. So this is we are not using jitter one right. So this would be like off exponential back off. There is one more flavor of exponential random back off which is for the third jitterness one. Okay. But but I think you got it like based on the what we tell in the configuration explicitly that method would be invoked. So this is the place where the actual delay logic is computed. Then retry config where we have like what is the maximum attempt what is the retry on the exception you have to do retry and from this config you have to create create and retry object this is again just for our understanding you can't debug that code it it is generated by AOP dynamically at runtime
