=== Why we need to do Retry? (15s - 222s) ===

start I just want to say that that retry if we not properly implemented it has more disadvantage than advantage. We will get to know why. So in distributed system call to downstream service might fail because of transient issues. Transient issues means that short temporary issue like network issue, timeout etc. and retry of same request after a short delay can get succeed. Okay. So one question might comes to you that hey still why we should do retry? Why can't user or client can invoke our API again? So let's say that this is our client. This is our component order and we have an API and we are invoking another API of let's say product component and there is some transient issue while invoking it. So what we are saying is so transient issues if we retry it it can get succeed. So we can do a retry for this invocation. So the question is that hey shange why we need to retry why can't client again invoke the API so that automatically it will invoke the product API again why we have to retry ourself. So see the answer is for each call lot of heavy processing is done and it's not free of cost memory time resources etc. So everything like it's there is some cost incurred. So say you have invoke client at first invoke an API 90% of the API implementation is completed task is completed only 10% is left and then it invoke this product API and the transient issue happen let's say uh network timeout happen so is it a good idea to dispose of this 90% of the task which is done no right we if we can just simply retry this and if it gets succeeded then only 10% task have to be done otherwise if we ask client to retry again our API hit again our API again we will do the same 90% task again so redundant of the work is there duplicacy of the work is there and it will increase our cost and it's not free of cost to be honest right so with above understanding we know know that retry is important right I think I hope this point will tell you that why retry is important because we don't want to do the same 90% task again okay and I'm just saying this is just one client if there are 100 clients for this API and they are all invoking and there are thousands of calls so you are saying that you are doing lot of wasting your uh capacity on just duplicate task which you have already completed. So we know that retry is important but the now question is when to retry, how to retry. Very very important question.
