=== Implementation of Custom Interval Retry (2023s - 2498s) ===

Okay, then we have custom retry. Now this is interesting part. Now we have to retry, right? So first thing first, we can't use at the rate retry annotation now because when we use at the rate retry what generally happen is our AOP depends upon configuration to construct the to create a retry object. But now since there is no configuration right we can't use this annotation that will not work. So one thing is we have to manually create a retry object. Now our understanding of that will come into this picture. So here what I am doing now. So here if you see that in the add the rate configuration I have written a method custom retry. I am creating a bean. I'm creating an object of retry. So this is we know that AOP might be doing it and the same thing I am doing the first thing is interval function. So we have to provide a function method which where the delay computation would be calculated. So here is Fibonacci interval. So here earlier I what I did is like I have like I want to run it like one one then two then three then five like this. So first retry happen at one. Another retry happen at one. Uh the third retry happen after 2 seconds. U then three. Then like this in Fibonacci way the delay increases. But for simplification purpose you can have all this logic here. This is just for demo purpose that different logic you can build. But here I am just for simplification purpose. I'm just returning what is the delay time it return. Right? For each run, for each retry, we have to compute the delay time. Right? What is the next delay time? What is the next delay time? So, this method returns the duration like wait for this much sec milliseconds. Wait for this much duration. Okay. So let's say that Fibonacci interval you have the logic all here and it return milliseconds later. Let's say it return this one 2 millisecond it has to wait. Okay. So this generally method do the computation again and return what time retry what has to let's say if it is third retry. If it is third retry, so retry one, retry two, retry three, then it will return 2 seconds, 2,000 millisecond. Got it? So we have to write this method now. And this is what first thing I have done. So attempt for each attempt. So let's say if you are four attempt for each attempt it compute the duration delay time. The second thing is same retry config max attempt you have to now tell it here there is no configuration application.properties you have to tell it here retry exception what what all exception you have to do retry you you don't have to define it application.properties properties you have to define it here dot build your config object is created and from that you create a retry object so now we have created the retry object now we have to use it how to use it now now in the order service on this product API we can't uh do annotation right at the rate retry we can't do that so we have to do this way and that's what internally AOP might be doing that also. So first it has created a retry object like this what we have done and then it would have in the similar way it might have done the same way. So it autowired the custom retry object the retry object which we have created the bean which we have created. So here dependency injection will happen. Then it has execute supplier. Okay. So we are wrapping what we are doing is we are wrapping an object. So this is I want to retry this is my retriable code. I am wrapping it inside this retry dot retry. I'm wrapping wrapping it up within this retry because annotation will not work. I have to do it manually. So this is my piece of code which I want to do retry in case of failure. Now I have to manually wrap it inside the custom retry dot execute supplier. Okay. Now let's say that you have you have invoked it. There is a failure. So it will automatically retry it. Okay. Because it is inside the retry object, right? For each retry we have done attempt, right? For each retry it find out the delay it has to wait based on the logic you have written. It will find out what is the delay time it has to wait and after waiting for that much time right it will execute again based on this configuration if that exception is retrivable and if attempt is still left if all the attempt is finished then ultimately this catch block will get invoked all retries failed this is the fallback. So by writing this custom retry by ourself we get to know that what AOP might be doing inside. So you can say that this is the exact AOP code which might they have done during runtime. First they have created a retry object and then for that retry object they have wrapped it the method which we have written right at the rate retry before they wrap those method inside this custom retry dot execute supplier. Okay. And after all retry finish in the catch part it might have run our fallback method and we can check our output also. So we have done six attempts right one original five retry. So we can say so what is our uh code which have to be retried one is system.out.print calling product service and the time and then actually it's called it. So these two things will get think. So original happen at this calling product service and then it will try to call it. So it happened at 22 35 45. Then here if you see 47 49 51 22 second delay. Why 22cond delay? Because currently I have hardcoded it to 2,00 millisecond. Here if you can see I have hardcoded it to 2,000 millisecond. That's why. But if you have returned your own interval that if it is a retry one one retry two again one if it is a retry three 2 seconds if it is a retry fourth three retry fifth like this then eight like this it it should go then 13 so then it will change it but for now since I have hardcoded it so for each retry attempt when it tried to compute what is the duration I have to wait it will always return two 2 seconds itself. So that's why it is waited 2 seconds. So 1 2 3 4 5 6 attempt finished. Then it reached to the else part. Fall back here. All retries failed. This is fall back. All retries failed. This is fall back.
