=== What is Time Limiter and why we are not covering it (2154s - 2321s) ===

limiter because I am not going to cover the time limiter reason being is that time limiter is used to prevent a sync call from hanging indefinitely. Okay, time limiter is nonblocking in resilience 4j means it is designed for a synchronous operation that returns a reactive type like monoflux. So you remember that in a blocking. So here if you remember in the faint client so faint client rest template rest client these are all blocking calls means threads are waiting and the thread should not wait indefinitely. They should not hang indefinitely. So we have provided that connection timeout and ret time out. We have already seen that in the flland example. So we provided right connection timeout how much time it take to make a HTTP uh TCP connection read timeout how much time I should wait before I get a response from the downstream. So only this much time it will wait it will not wait indefinitely. So for blocking calls we can handle it through this. But what about using calls right? Let's say you fire and forget. This is you fire and forget. Now assing there is a thread in it is working. How you make sure that it don't hang or continuously work indefinitely. So that thread should get also freed up. Okay. So that's where time limiter is used. So I will cover it when we will cover the web flux reactive programming in that it will make more sense because in the blocking rest template rest client it does not make sense because it is non-blocking in resilience 4j okay even if you put into non-blocking let's say at the rate time limiter okay so what it will happen is you call you submit a request you submit a task to a thread pool Okay. And your thread got freed and now async thread is working. So it will not ultimately free this up. It will just try to free your this thing which is automatically get freed. It just submit a task to a thread pool and just finish move ahead. Now thising thread is working. So here in the blocking mechanism it will not be able to free this async call. So we will ultimately see when we will start the web flux. Okay. So if there is any doubt let me know in
