=== Thread Pool Bulkhead Use-Case discussion (258s - 657s) ===

Okay. Another use case, very very important use case. And also remember that before I go to this use case, remember one very very important system design problem which is like a noisy neighbor problem. If you can recall this problem what it says that let's say this is your application and you have application have multiple tenants tenant one tenant two tenant three. So let's say that you have one of the tenant which is very very noisy like the traffic from this tenant is so high that it consume all resources all resources and even the tenants which are not like uh sending that much traffic or let's say they are just hitting one call but their request is denied because all of your resources are used by one tenant. That is known as noisy neighbor problem. That you have one neighbor which is very noisy or very very similar but you can say that the context is very uh narrow in this use case. Noisy neighbor context is big like it includes thread infrastructure resources DB like everything. If your tenant is res using the resources like consider everything DB resource infrastructures threads everything but here we are mostly talking about thread in this use case now consider this use case you will find very very similarity to noisy neighbor but the context is again I'm telling it's very narrow noisy neighbor problem context is very broader so let's say that API API 1 makes a downstream call to product service. So I have so this is our component order is our component and we have API 1 which when it get invoked it make a call to product service. Product service is very fast right? Product service returns the response in less than 100 millisecond only. So it's a very fast service. Okay. Now we have API 2 and when this API got invoked it actually invokes internally payment service. Now this payment service is slow. It might take 5 second to process a request. Let's say it has to further go to third party uh endpoint but this is slow this is slow service and for API 1 the product is fast service. This is our setup. Now let's say what if there is a sudden spike in API 2 traffic. What if there's a sudden spike in API 2 traffic and it internally invoked the payment component which is slow. Now your thread got blocked for 5 second. Thread one got blocked for 5 second. Thread two got blocked for 5 seconds. Similarly your nth threads got blocked for 5 seconds. Okay. So when a sudden spike comes in API 2, more and more calls are made to payment service which is slow and it is possible that they might not be a concurrent but since this is a slow service it blocks your thread longer for 5 second and more and it possible that your all threads of order service are now blocked. So let's say it has a thread pool of 10 threads and there is a certain spike comes in API 2. All 10 threads are now blocked here. Okay. So there is no thread here. Just assume that. Now if any request comes to API 1. Okay. And this API 1 will it be able to fulfill it? No. There is no thread left in the thread pool. So either it has to wait or it will get rejected. So even though it invokes a very fast service there is not much traffic to API 1 but still it gets suffer because of API 2. So you can say that we can so you remember there is a ship concept so in a ship there are different compartments. So if water fills up into one of the compartment they block it so that water do not spill over into rest of the compartment. So very very similar concept is used in the use case two if your so they will put a limit they will put a limit or you can say that thread pool so they limit a threads hey API 2 they I know that you are invoking an endpoint which is very slow so I give you only max five threads let's say you can't use more threads than that okay so even though I have total 10 threads in my order thread pool we I have only allocated five threads to API 2 not more than that okay so I have and if let's say suddenly more requests coming in the API to more than five either they have to waited or get rejected because the max I can allocate is fifth so you can say that similar to this one I have provided a limit okay so that only resource I can provide you man. Okay. So that my other endpoint do not suffer. So you understand this use case. Whenever we have multiple endpoint and one of the end point we have to make sure that it do not consume all the resources then bulkhead can be used and it has a thread pool bulk ahead type. So this is the second type of bulkhead thread pool bulkhead through which we can limit the resource to a particular endpoint. Okay. So we'll see that also. So these are the two types. Sema for bulkhead threadpool bulkhead. Let's go
