=== Implementation of Semaphore Bulkhead (657s - 1069s) ===

one by one. So sema for bulkhead limit the number of concurrent calls using counter. Okay. So you have this API, you have this product service. So max three concurrent calls, fourth one should be rejected. So at a time three calls can go into your critical section. You can say that critical section. Critical section here is the one where we are invoking the API. The one where we are invoking the API. Consider that that is our critical section. So three calls are allowed, three threads are allowed, the fourth thread it has to wait till one of them get is free. Okay. So if you understand the bul if you need to understand the bulkhead understand more like a thread pools and all. So in that case it would be easy to understand. So when I say that three calls so just that only we have a three threads. Okay. So only three concurrent request max can go to this critical section. The fourth one it will get rejected because there is no thread left. Now why the name simma 4? Because the counter how it manage that only three requests can go. So it uses a sema 4 locking strategy. So if you following the Java playlist also in that multi-threading series I have told about the sema 4 locks. In that I have explained like how simma 4 manage the counter that allow three calls or four calls or five calls whatever the number we will give that many request can goes into a critical section. So internally it uses a sema 4 lock. Okay. So kindly have a look if you have any doubt with the simma 4 how a simma 4 locking works how it allow n number of concurrent calls. Okay so in short limit the number of concurrent call using counter and here internally it uses simma for log if the limit is reached further calls are rejected immediately or block for a specific wait time. Let's see that the first thing first like we did in the rate limiter we have to add a dependency only we have to add a dependency of resilience 4j that's all because resilience 4j provide us multiple fall tolerance like rate limiter bulk ahead retry circuit breaker and all so we don't have to individually download the dependencies resilience forj dependency is enough this is just a controller like we have normal no change the f client I am using yeah so controller is invoking the product service method invoke product API okay so let's say that this is the place where I'm actually invoking my other application product here it has one endpoint API okay and this is my order component and I am trying to invoke the product call that's the this. So here I'm just invoking it very normal using faint line no nothing difference but now this annotation I have put on top of it at the rate bulk ahead uh bulkhead give a name to this what is the type of bulkhead you want to use so I want to use bulkhead type dot sema 4 okay and what is the fallback method if there is any thing happen. Let's say that Sema 4 if it reached the limit three concurrent request fourth comes which get uh either cued or failed. So once it is failed it move to the fall back method this one. Now what will happen here is also uh so this one is simple right we have to just put annotation we will see how it works. So now let's see that application.properties in application.properties we have to put resilience 4j.bulcad bulk.instance the name we have given here the bulkhead name what is the maximum concurrent call is two maximum concurrent call means maximum concurrent threads are allowed into a critical section so this is considered my critical section maximum threads can go inside which can invoke the product API Okay. So maximum I want is two not more than that. And there is something called max weight duration. Currently I put it zero means fail it immediately. Don't even wait it. If there is no thread left fail it immediately and call the product fallback method. But if you want that hey it should not fail immediately then you can provide some values here like so you can provide like 500 ms millisecond 1 second like this. So you can provide in ms is for millisecond s for second m for minute h for hours d for delay. So here if you see if wait time is zero reject immediately wait time you can also give 300 millisecond 2 second 1 minute like this you can define based on like how much time you want a particular thread to wait before it get rejected immediately make sense so this I told you that this everything is handled by AOP AOP add runtime proxy code. Okay. So when this annotation is seen by AOP, it add a proxy code and it knows that it has a SIMA 4 and this is a code and it will use this SIM 4 locking strategy. It just add a code for the SIMA 4 lock. How the Sema 4 lock is implemented. So if you see this simma 4 functionality right you will easily get to know how this concurrency handled. Okay, I will put into the description section also that the link for this uh video. So you can check the simma 4 part only so that it will get clear to you. But simma 4 bulkhead is clear right? Why exactly it is used for. Okay.
