=== Use of completedFuture in critical section of Thread Pool Bulkhead (1840s - 2154s) ===

okay Yeah. So this is uh very important part. Um so here yeah one very important thing. Yeah I wanted to I was looking for that one. So here let me clarify a bit uh a little bit let me delete the writing so that it is clearly visible. Yeah focus on this part. when I am submitting a task here right I am putting completable future dot completed future and this here never do supply a sync so we if you know thread pool you know that in plain java we are doing this completable future dotsupply a sync and internally it will submit a task to a thread pool this will submit the task to thread And who should do it? AOP should do it. And AOP is doing that. AOP internally submit this. So we should not do supply or sync here. We can we have to use completed future here. So completed future is doing nothing. It is a wrapper like whatever your task. So this is my actually a task which I want uh to be submitted to a thread pool actually. Okay. But I can't do because return type is completable future. I just can't have this. I have I can't just uh return a string. I can't just return a string because return type is completable future. So I have to wrap it up. So I have to wrap it up inside a completable future object. That's all. So completed future do not submit the task to thread pool. It only wrap the output. That's all. So never use supply async here. So if you just if you want to do testing right just do completable future dossupply as sync and just submit this. Okay. And also uh just print the thread pool name just what is the thread name right before submitting just put a thread name. So like here let's say you are doing dot supply async and this product by id product client by product by id something something and you have a thread name and just see that does your bulcat thread pool used or not it will not because now you are submitting the request when you are submitting the request to a thread pool you are using a thread from your order application right your order application you are using it. So you need to use AOP because AOP will now have the proper understanding that okay when the bulkhead annotation is used this is the name this is the service then I have to look for application.properties properties and whatever the name you have provided for the bulkhead that bulcad particular name in configuration I have to root read I have to create a thread pool and use that. So AOP does that for us and do supply async method and pass the thread pool executor along with it. Okay. So if you just create supply a sync and provide the method it will use default one default one for your order application or either you have to manually handle that you have to manually create a thread pool and pass your bulkhead bulkhead thread pool executor then it will use this pool. But you have to create now first executor bulkhead exeutor you have to create first for this all configuration you have to create that this is the max this is the min this is the Q once the executor is created now if you are calling the supply a sync supply a sync then provide the task which you want to submit let's say this is the task of calling the downstream and then in the comma the executor you have to pass this executor you have to pass then it will work fine because now you are creating a executor you are passing you are submitting supplier a sync you are submitting to a thread pool and you are also tell which executor to use now it will not use the common one but if you just simply do supply a sync and the task calling the downstream let's say this one it will use common thread pool and you don't have to manually create a executor Because this add the rate bulk ahead ultimately internally going to do the same thing. It will first create threadpool executor and then call supply async and pass your this task and how it threadpool exeutor is created and all it's all discussed here in dep in description section I will put this thing got it so last 1 minute let's see uh time
