=== Implementation of Thread Pool Bulkhead (1069s - 1589s) ===

Now see the threadpool bulkhead. So again one thing is in thread pool bulkhead we are managing what we are limiting one of our API you can say that or a critical section place so that it don't consume all the resource so it is calling this it is calling this let's say so I'm limiting this that hey when you are invoking this downstream use only this much resource you can't use all the resource or all the threats Okay. So that my other endpoints or my other my complete as a whole application should not get affected because of this. So assign a dedicated thread pool for each service. E service means let's say you have a payment service like this endpoint is invoking a payment service. You can provide a dedicated thread pool for this. If you have let's say sales order is calling sales service you can provide a dedicated thread pool like okay okay you can use this much resource only if you're invoking this downstream service okay only that pool is used to call the downstream very important it is only for the downstream okay but first thing first as the name thread pool bulk ahead what it is using thread pool again in the Java the whole dedicated video of thread pool and thread pool executor I have created very in depth I have explained how exactly thread pools works so kindly have a look like it will help you understand like what internally AOP might be doing how it is creating a thread pool how it is adding a task into a thread pool so thread pool has let's say task Initial task uh initial threads let's say four threads also it has a queue of size particular size n so task has to be submitted and once it is submitted if there is no thread will it put here or it will reject it so we have all the point discussed here. So kindly have a look of thread pool then it would be little bit more clear how internally AOP might be doing it. So here if you see its implementation nothing much difference. So here the order service where we are invoking the product API. So you can say that this is our critical section. Okay. I want to limit that only limited number of threads goes inside. Okay. So I have put at the bulkhead. Give it a name of this bulkhead. bulkhead type which I'm using is thread pool. The fallback is this method. Okay. Now I am using a thread pool means you know that thread pool has a configuration. What is the minimum number of threads? What is the maximum number of threads? Okay. So that's we have to define what is the Q capacity. So in application.properties properties like this we can define those thread pool properties resilience 4j thread pool bulk ahead instances the name this is the name right so core thread pool size is the threads which will always be present into a thread pool three maximum thread pool is three also okay so generally what happen is let's say if the you can say that minimum like core is two and maximum is three. Let's say the Q size is your two or let's say Q size is four. So 1 2 3 4 four spaces. So let's say this thread is busy. This thread is busy. This thread is busy. So both the threads are busy. Request one it is fulfilling. It is request two it is fulfilling. If any further requests come then Q would be used. Then request three would be put here. Request four, request five, request six. Okay. So total six requests here. Now request seven comes. Now there is no thread currently pending because the minimum thread pool or core thread pool is two and both are working. Q is full. Will it reject the request? No. Because max thread pool size let's say is three. So means it will create new thread and request 7 work on that. Now if eight comes does any thread there in the thread pool? No. Is any Q has a space? No. Does the max limit reach? Yes. Maximum is three. Three threads are already working. So now this will be rejected. So I have already explained everything into this one. So this is just a very quick brief so that you can recall what is minimum thread pool, max thread pool, Q capacity. So based on this configuration it actually creates a thread pool. How to create a thread pool? You will get understand when you see this. Now here if you see AOP proxy intercept your method call. Okay. So with the bulkhead it know it intercept your method call. So it submits your method to bulkhead thread pool configured via application.properties. So consider this internally AOP might be doing like this completable future. A sync. So this supply a sync actually submit your request to a thread pool. Submit your request to thread pool. Okay. and the whole method body uh is submitted as a task. So this whole method right whatever so currently here I am only my critical section is the place downstream API which I am calling. So you need to make sure very very specific that where you are putting this annotation. So whatever the u business logic validation you have within this method right that would be submitted. Okay. So use it very carefully that only downstream call should be present into this because bulkhead is mostly applicable for the downstream only controlling the downstream right how much resource I can use while calling the downstream. Okay. So you know that here in the thread pool this is how this is the way of submitting the request to a thread uh thread pool. So supply a sync and then you put the your method logic the whole method body runs here right and which thread pool executor it will has to use. So it will use bulkhead thread pool exeutor which it will create using this configuration. So one thing important is that it returns completable future object. It returns completable future object. Why? Because internally AOP intercepting it and AOP going to submit the request to a thread pool and the way to submit a request is this completable future. try a sync because the request might has to wait either in Q or it will get accepted one thread would be allocated to it which will start work and it will return the completable future object okay and that thread will continue working it. So the same thing is since uh we are not writing the code AOP is writing it but the concept in behind the same it is doing the same we get a completable future object and the AOP also returns a completable future only so that's why it want a return type computable future okay and whatever the fallback method we will write also it should match we have already discussed in the rate limiter so that's why I have a return type similarly here only here it is also string string only thing is it has throwable extra
