=== Testing the code flow with Output analsyis (1589s - 1840s) ===

okay so you can test it like uh I have just added system outprint ln here just for the testing of this one like u so I have just put it like which thread name which thread is currently fulfilling this method call right so currently we have a thread pool size is three and Q is two. This is what we have defined right initially. So here if you see let me clarify a bit. So here if you see what is the thread pool size three and max is also three. So maximum we have three threads only and the Q is only two. So here if you see I invoke the API six times. So six time I invoke my endpoint. So order controller I have invoked order controller is invoking the invoke product API. So six times I have invoked the API. So it means internally so my controller my service and this is the product API. Okay. 1 2 3 4 5 six time I invoke. So sixth time they call service method you can say that my critical section where my logic is there to invoke the product API. So sixth time it might have tried to tried to invoke product API but let's see the behavior. So first time I have three threads and two Q. So first time request comes so six calls right. So first one is given to thread one. So this one is getting fulfilled by thread one. Second request is fulfilled by thread two. Second request is fulfilled by thread two. So there are three threads right? So thread three fulfilled the request three. So see the name bulk ahead product service three. So it is using my product instance right. So it using my thread pool whatever we have created thread pool for product service it is not using the common one which is for the my order application. No whatever I have created specifically for my downstream it is using that thread pool this one. So this is also a you can validate that's why I'm printing the thread name right. So thread one, thread two, thread three is also fulfilling. So now all three threads are busy. They are fulfilling three requests. Now request four and request five. This four and five there is no thread left. So it would be inserted into Q. Okay. And the sixth one the my all three threads are busy. Q is full with request four and five and the request six will get rejected. So request six got rejected. Product service is busy. Okay. So it got rejected. Now once two thread got free, it will pick from my queue. Request four and request five will get fulfilled either by thread one or thread two. So thread one become free. It pick request four. Thread two become free it become request five. So exact thread pool functionality no difference. whatever we have implemented thread pool right into plain Java internally spring AOP just doing that only it is writing that code for us just this is the configuration and only thing is like uh this is our task like this is the task it's submit to a thread for processing that's all
