=== PII (Personally Identifiable Information) Safe Logging (2238s - 2501s) ===

So now we know how to generate a structured logging. Now very important is we should never log P III data personally identifiable information. Very important. Okay. So one golden rule is if you don't know if particular data is PII or not never log it because if you log it and it turned out to be a PI data it's a compliance issue. Okay. So generally government bodies then charge fine. So what is considered as PI data? So any information through which we can identify a specific person directly or indirectly like phone number, address, Aadhaar card, pen card, email, OTP, password these are all covered uh as PII data because we they can be used to identify one specific person directly or indirectly and there are so many things. So whatever information you are trying to log if you're not sure whether this could be a PI data or not check it search online there I think there is a list in the PII there is some documentation which has all the information which can be considered as PII. So see whatever you are trying to log consider as PI or not. But with the structured logging we have a way to save it. So that by mistake if it we are putting it we can save it and like how we do is so we know that we have a log info log convert to log event it goes to JSON encoder convert it to a JSON. I told you about JSON decorator which is like a postprocessing here we can make use of it. So we can make use of JSON decorator. Okay. And it's like a postprocessing which we can use for just JSON pretty. Currently JSON is like in very form of like plain text right like this. So if have like a proper JSON nested and all it's like a pretty form you can do that also or you can also use it to mask sensitive fields how so here if you see I am creating an appender JSON console so my appender is write the log statement to console but what encoder I am using to format my is like log/ encoder so ultimately I would be putting into the JSON form Now I am using a decorator JSON generator decorator. Okay. And the class which I'm using is masking JSON generator decorator. So there are multiple classes which we can use for pretty. For pretty JSON pretty there could be different class which we can use within this decorator. But for masking we have this masking JSON generator decorator. Here we can tell the default mask. So you can say it's like a placeholder which will which fe will be used for masking. So default mask I want like a star star star like this. What are the field to mask? So password token credit card. So I have just put this path. So these are path is nothing but a field. So whatever the JSON file which you have or you can say that the JSON log log in the JSON form if in that log any fields are this those would be changed to star star star like this no matter if they are within a nested object or not okay if across this JSON if any of this field is present they will get masked with this placeholder. Okay. So, decorator close and this one. So, now here if you see in / payments I have MDC. So, dynamically I'm just so payment ID and for testing purpose I'm putting hey password is this is my password. So you we know that from MDC it will read it and convert add it to JSON and this is my decorator error I'm looking for password also that it should mask it. So here if you see payment ID added properly but password is changed to star star star instead of my password. Okay. So in the next part we will see MDC very
