=== Structured Logging (JSON) (1407s - 2004s) ===

very critical structured logging and PII safe logging. By this time one thing might have come to our mind that formatting using pattern is not machine friendly at all. Why? See now I am doing log.info info here. Okay. And this is the pattern which I am using. So how it is showing it in the console. So this is a console appender. So it would be like date then level then logger name then I'm using hyphen and then the message. So here if you see in future if I want I can change it to like put a pipe here. Something I can do. So log aggregation tools have to parse this plain text. So this plain text they have to parse. Let's say many time what happen is log aggregation tools. They are listening to our logs and you are putting into file and you told them that hey listen to this output file to for the your log aggregation. Now log aggregation is what they will do is they will see that okay how many log with level info what so they will do some aggregation on top of it right so this is a plain text so definitely they have to do some parsing to find out what is the logger name what is the thread name what is the date what is the level what is the message okay so they have to do parsing to find out all this thing before they start doing aggregation and this parsing is not a straightforward and not 100% correct. Why? Because they have to rely on rejects. Okay, if a space comes that first one is date or this is thing because this is free form of we are writing right in the pattern. That's what I told you currently today I'm using hyphen. What if tomorrow I change in some logging or in some logger I am using pipe. We can have multiple logger right multiple logger multiple appender. Each appender can have different encoder pattern. So for one and appender I am using this encoding pattern for another I am using this. So one rejects will not work for sure and because of that aggregation tool find it difficult to parse the pattern logs which are in plain text. Okay. And also you can see that in some logs we can see date like this. Some we can see that with seconds and also it's become difficult. It's not easy to extract useful information from message also. So here I have you see that I put very useful information payment ID 1 2 3. This is critical information which log aggregation tool might use because in the log aggregation tool you might have like hey fetch me a payment ID with 1 2 3 or something but with this they won't be able to do anything because how would they know that in this message you have something important which I need to aggregate they won't be able to aggregate it at all so it would be better if you can filter based on payment ID but since it's in plain text aggregation tool might not be able to search it and that's where structured logging JSON comes into the picture because JSON is something you can say that it's a friendly for any machine or generally we are saying log aggregation tool so these are nothing but a machines you can say that which looks for your output file and if it is in JSON that is like that the best thing they can get it's very easy for them to aggregate but before I proceed further like how you can do the structured logging please note it does not mean everything we need to use JSON when to use JSON only for those data for which we later might have to do query filter or some aggregation that's all for example later you have to do a search for payment ID ID then it's better that in the JSON form we can put it so that on this field it log aggregation tool put a some index let's say so they can easily do payment ID okay for 1 2 3 you got this many events happened so whenever you have to do query or filter or something go for JSON otherwise go for plain text so it's always a mix match again it's not always JSON not fully 100 plain text it's always a mix match Okay, one thing is incorrect way don't do this in production that let's say you are trying to make the pattern itself like in a JSON. Hey time D level this message then placeholder this might work but the thing is that generally we have so many fields let's say what about 50 fields you have to do you have to put into a JSON for log aggregation okay and it's possible 50 is very less there are more so generally it's better not to have it because you have to keep on extending it and there is a chance of error also so high chance of mistake so we have a very best practice for it yes l use log stash encoder so I'm telling you for log back framework persceptive use log stash encoder so before what happen is you have a log info we will convert it to an event then it goes for pattern formatting then it goes to appender and then output now here with the log stash encoder what it will do log info convert it to a log event this log event is now converted to your JSON encoder so it will convert it to a JSON form okay now this JSON form goes to a JSON decorator this is optional this is you can say that post-processing so there are many post-processing like you can do uh pretty print you like you can make pretty JSON okay And even like in the JSON if you have to hide few things. Okay, you can do that. So this you can say that it's kind of post-processing before it pass through to the appender to write it. Okay, so log stash encoder has this two things. Okay, it convert the log event to JSON and then we also have JSON decorator which is optional which can do postprocessing on this JSON before it passed to appender. So for that we need to add a dependency in pom.xml. So this is the dependency you need to add. Use any stable version. Okay. Uh log stash logback encoder is something which we need to add. And this is the appender. Now I'm adding. See this how simple it is. Appender name is JSON console. You can give any name. Why I give JSON console? Because I am using a console appender and encoder I am using JSON one. So that's why JSON. You can give any name. So this is my output. Still I am printing on output. But what format my encoder is which I am using is like log/ encoder. Now okay and here if you see I am not using any pattern. Now I am using encoder. This will decide like how to convert it to a JSON. So this class accept log event and fetch the details from the log event like logger name, thread name etc. Okay. So now question might have come to you that hey Shange what all fields this will fetch log/enccoder will fetch. So if you open this class log field names do java. So you will see that it has this many field at the rate time stamp at the rate version message thread name logger name level stack trace uh caller class name caller method name caller file name caller line number everything. So these are some of the you can say that fields which are already present which it tried to fetch from the log event. Okay. So this is already present. So open this class and see that what all presents here. Okay. So for thread name it will do log event dot get thread name. Okay. Uh log event dot what is the logger name? What is the level name? So it will try to fetch everything from this log event itself. Okay. And then we can easily configure our logger. So this is my logger. My logger name level is info. Additivity false. I don't want to propagate upward. Appender which I am referring is JSON console. So this one I am associating my logger. So now if you see the output if you do log info something I'm just doing the log.info. So see the output now on the console. So here I am using console appender right. So on console only come but now in this form log form JSON form. So at the time stem these all fields are present at the time stamp. So this time version message log info and the payment ID 1 2 3 whatever login name thread name level level level value. So all these fields are present which it will try to fetch it from your log event and it will show like this. Now definitely question would come to
