=== AsyncAppender with Implementation (280s - 723s) ===

that let's say your request comes you did log.info info and after that there's something task like level check log events done. As soon as that is done, so we put the event log event to a que and as soon as the log event is put to the queue, your request thread become free. And now this Q holds log events and then we have a worker thread which take out this log event from the Q and pass it to the appender and appender write it to the log statement. So from the above diagram couple of things we need to notice that a sync appender is just a wrapper actual work is still done by appender only. So this is the one which actually does all the work of writing. Okay only thing is we are just providing a wrapper above it that okay instead of directly sending the request or log event to appender we are first accepting into the queue. From the queue a worker thread pick the task and pass it to appender. Okay. So async appender provide Q facility and also provide worker thread facility which pick the event from the queue and pass it to appender. So this is how we write an async appender. So this is nothing but a normal file appender which we have already seen in the part two like how to create appender. So this is nothing but a file appender. Now I am creating one appender. Okay. Okay. And I have given it a name a sync file. Okay. You can give any name. And the class which I'm using it a sync appender. So here I am creating now a sync appender. I told you it's just a wrapper. Okay. So this a sync appender which I'm writing it might pass a request to one specific appender. Right? So here reference appending reference to which appender. So here it is referencing to this file. Okay. Now it also provide Q and worker thread capacity. So we can decide what is the Q size. Capacity by default is 256. If you don't write it but if you want to change it you can like Q size 1,000 if you want it. Okay. Then we have something called worker thread. Worker thread by default it has only one worker thread. Okay. And generally uh there is no configuration that to increase the worker thread. It only has one worker thread which works on the queue and then there is something called discarding threshold. So discarding threshold like you can give any value like 10 20 50. So what does it mean when you give 10 what does it mean that? So till Q whatever the Q we have let's say that it size is 0 to 99 100. So till the Q size doesn't reach 90 it will accept all kind of log events debug trace info error want all are accepted but as soon as the size reach till 90 and only 10% space is left. So for this 10% only critical events will be accepted. Generally error, warn and info these are generally considered as you can say that critical debug and trace would be rejected. Okay. So last 10% would be kept only for critical uh non-critical would be discarded. Okay. So if you have like 40 so till 60% everything would be accepted in the queue and for last 40% of the queue only critical info error one would be accepted by the queue the rest is not accepted this uh like your debug trace okay and there is also one more thing like never block true false so we can write it like here never block true false what does it mean now let's say when the Q is full. When the queue is full and your request is trying to insert an event, does it has to wait or not? So by default is false. Okay. So means the request thread blocks if the que is full. If the que is full, it wait for the space in the queue. But if you make it true, it request thread drop the log itself. But request thread do not wait. If there is no space, the log would be dropped and the request thread would get free immediately. It won't wait for the space to get uh created within a queue. Okay. So these are the configuration you can use in an async appender. So name anything you can give the class async appender the actual appender which this async has to call the Q size and like discarding threshold and never block. Okay. And here if you see this is our logger. Okay. Level is info. Additivity is false. We have already seen the appender which it we are associating it this a sync one. Now one important thing to consider is that what happen in case of app shutdown because the queue which is created is in memory. So when the JVM stops let's say your JVM you shut down the app. So when you shut down the app JVM does not shut down instantly. It performs certain cleanups. So during that time what happens to the async appender is first it will stop accepting any new log event. It will not accept any new log event even if there is a space and it try to flush the event as soon as possible but it does not guarantee because as soon as JVM shutdown this queue is discarded. So any event present into the queue will get discarded. So there is always a risk of losing the events in case of a sync appender or you can say that in case of a sync logging itself. So my recommendation is that for warn info debug trace we can go for a sync but for critical error is something which I would say that it is critical because if any customer issue comes say this is not working then this error log is something which can help us. So this I consider is a very critical event. So for that only we can go for sync but for all others we can go for a sing. Why? Because uh even though we can for error also we can go for a singing and we can make that okay never block true or uh never block false means if the Q is full wait don't just discard the Q. But we can also have like okay only for warning info debug trace we can go for a sync for error I will go for sync that also we can do just to make sure that Q size full or application restart in scenario in those cases my critical event does not lost. So I will just give you an example that how we can do that. Uh we can make use
