=== AsyncAppender vs AsyncLogger (62s - 280s) ===

have done All everything logging is doing happens in the sync nature. So whatever the appenders write to the file whether to DB to Kafka to file all the logging happens in the sync nature means your request thread waits for the logging work to finish. And this is very critical because in a heavy traffic when you have so many traffic so many logs statement to write means so many log statement means you might have to do so many uh operations on DB or Kafka or file it could impact your latency and thus overall impact on the performance of the application that's where the sync logging feature comes into the picture. So a sync is generally of two type as sync appender and a sync logger. So let's see appender first. So in this async appender which is a log back feature only appender work is a sync. So now let's say that when our request when our request thread does log.info after this lot of other small task happen like this this statement is converted to let's say log event. After that level checking is happen. So there are another sub operations which might be happening. So that again all happen in sync. But only this part the formatting and writing to appender like writing via appender that only happens through async. So in the async appender only a specific task and the task is the log formatting and the appender like where we write the log statement to an output that is only done through a different thread and in a sync nature. Other subtask like level check or creation of log events from this log.info info all everything happen in sync but in a sync logger which is log 4j2 feature complete logging pipeline is a sync means once you did this log.info info after that everything is happen a sync. Okay. So this is good for highle traffic where you want very minimal latency for the logging. This is good for medium level traffic. So here we are good uh but latency might be little bit higher than this a sync logger also. Logback generally do not support a sync logger only. Okay. Here we have only a sing appender. In the logback framework we have only a sing appender. We don't have a sing logger. Whereas if you're using log 4j2 you have both. You have a sing appender and you have a sing logger too. But at least you know the difference that in as appender only this formatting and append appender work is a async rest other happens in still in sync. In async logger everything after you done log.info info or log. error or log.1 everything happen in async. So since we are doing log back framework so I would be covering a sing appender. Okay. And yes this is a pretty much used because this is for good for medium level traffic and this works for most of the majority of the cases. So in async appender what happens is
