=== Filters in Appender (723s - 1153s) ===

of filter. We also have filters in appender. we can make use of it. So just see this example. So what I am trying to here show you that we have a sync appender. A sync appender writes to a file. Uh this file name is noncritical. So here info warn debug trace will go. Then we have uh one more file critical here error log will go only error log only okay and all this info debug on this file it will happen in async and this will happen in sync so we want this functionality how we can do that so here if you see that I am uh I have created one let's say first appender is non-critical Okay. So, appender name is file not critical. I am using a file appender for example. And the file name which it will create is non-critical app.log. This file non-critical app.log. This is the file it will create. And I have now created one a sync appender which is a wrapper above it. So the name you can give anything. I give a sync. The class is a sync appender. Okay. and uh the appender which is which I'm associating it with like file not critical one this append this one so it's just an appender above this file appender which will create this non-critical file now here if you see that I am writing one filter okay so we can also have filter within appender so we can have different filter like level filter okay and we have another like threshold filter So these are all present within the logback framework itself. There are more but these two are popular. You can check out the documentation. We have more filters but these are very frequently used. Level filter and threshold filter. So in level filter what generally happen is a particular level we can decide what to do. For example here what is our expectation here in this one. So when any request comes here, so here it will come all it will come info it will come want it will come error uh debug trace everything request will come try to put into the queue okay but I want to put a filter hey before putting into the Q only remove error one rest all I can take because ultimately I want to put into non-critical which accept all except error Okay. So that's what I'm doing. Filter level filter I'm using because I need to work on one particular level. What is the level error on match? What I have to do? Deny. Okay. I don't don't add it into the queue. You can say that it deny. Don't accept it on mismatch. What you have to do? I said neutral. Neutral means let the other filter decide. So you can have multiple filter like this filter. Filter close. This is one filter. you can have another filter. Okay. So it's like from top to bottom it will run. So neutral means I don't know let the other filter decide if there is otherwise ultimately finally it will get discarded itself. So on match you can say that either accept or deny. So I said that okay error one denied and on match what we should do is neutral let the other filter decide or you can also do denied. If this is mash deny this uh log statement itself in that case uh the other filter might not run. Okay. So this is filter I have added. So all the log statement apart from error now get added to the Q and that those will be passed to non-critical one. Okay this one when this appender will run. Now I have writed one critical file critical this one. So I'm writing one appender for the critical one. So I am using file appender. This is the file name it will create. Now I only want error to go inside this. Okay. Because here this is an appender also. So info will come, debug will come, warn will come, trace will come, error will come. So I only want to handle error. I want to discard all. So I can use threshold filter. So in threshold filter we can just put level. So this level and above would be accepted and this level below everything would be rejected. So apart from error warn info debug trace these all would be rejected. Only error and above would be accepted. Above error there is nothing. So only error would be allowed here in this appender. Okay. And this is my logger. I have associated both a sync and file critical. So you can with this logger we can do anything info log dot error. So what would happen? So when you do log info all the appenders will run a sync also this also. So now let's say first async will run. What would happen? Okay. Uh level filter is it uh error? No, it's an info. So nothing will happen. It will append into the Q. So currently I'm not writing it. So by default Q size would be 256. It would be append worker thread pick it up and pass it to non-critical. Non-critical it will append it to a file. Then the same info would goes to the file critical. Here what I am doing is having a filter. I am only accepting error and above. So info would be rejected here. Okay. So it will goes into only non-critical. Similarly when error comes it will goes to a sync and file critical both a sync when it goes it will check okay level is error. Yes it we will deny it. Okay and uh it will deny it then we have file critical file critical what would happen threshold is error and above. So error yes it is an error. So it would be accepted and put into this. So you got it. So we can have a mix match of sync and a sync behavior and we can make use of filter just to filter out things. Got it? This is very important right because we can't have everything a sync. We can't have everything sync. So there is always a mismatch always. Okay. So now we have covered major logging part. So some good to know before we jump to distributed logging and structured logging very important part one thing is log format log pattern I
