=== Add Dynamic fields in JSON (2004s - 2238s) ===

you that hey what about some dynamic fields I want to add like okay these are some of the information which are present in my log statement it is able to fetch it is able to fetch the message okay so it able to fetch message logger name thread name date everything it's okay what is the level it's in the JSON form but the real power of structured JSON is that dynamic field which I should be able to add into the JSON so that my aggregation tool can also use this those new field because these are very limited okay there might be many field let's say here in the message I have payment ID payment ID 1 2 3 so let's say what if in JSON it would be better if I have let's say something payment ID and 1 2 3 so that log aggregation tool might be able to aggregate based on the payment ID field also like how many different unique payment ID I got in a day something we can do query out of it so that's where MDC comes into the picture map diagnostic context please note I will not go MDC here now I will go into the next part last part of distributed logging where I would be cover distributed logging part also because MDC also plays critical role in the distributed logging Okay, but for now I'm just saying just for now how dynamic value we can append into the JSON. So here we have something like MDC.put. So it's a static method MDC.put. Whatever the field you want to add and whatever the value you want to add dynamically in your code you can have make sure that you are doing it before the log wherever log.info info before that you have to put it because when you create a log event the log event will fetch this value from this MDC because if you do after this means you you have already done all this thing log.info info means you have already done you have already convert to log event from log event you have already convert to JSON this JSON is already passed to the appender appender already write it and after that you are doing mdcput it will not be used so you have to before it so that it will goes to this event log event and which can pass it to ultimate to JSON so here by default the our log log stash encoder has access to MDC. Okay. So if you don't want you can always make it false. Include MDC you can false it. Uh this encoder log/enccoder you can make it false so that it will not try to access your MDC. Whatever the data is present in your MDC it will not try to access it. But by default it is true. And when it is true, when the JSON encoder converts your log event to JSON, apart from log event, it will also read your MDC and it will take out all the keys value and put it into the JSON form. And your JSON would be like timestamp, version, payment, your whatever the logger message like payment is successful, logger name, thread name, whatever the previously we have seen. Now all the fields which are present into MDC that will also come payment ID 1 2 3 that's the power of structured logging. Okay. So MDC is very important topic and can be used with distributed logging. So we will cover in depth in the next part most probably the last part of the distributed logging.
