=== How Event is published and works in 1 application only (70s - 661s) ===

see before even jump to spring cloud bus let's first see how event is published within one application itself. So we are not talking about multiple microservices, distributed microservices within one application how you publish an event and how it internally works because these things are highly related. So see this I created one event my custom event. This is something which I want to publish to listeners. Okay. So let's understand this. I have a publisher and I have listeners. Listener one, listener two and so many listeners. So this my custom event is something which I want to publish to the listener. So a payload will go let's say and that payload is my custom event. Okay. So this payload will go. So you can say that this is my message which I want to send and it should extend application event interface. So here when we do publish event write this publish event accept the type of this class application event interface. So that's why whatever the message you have to create it has to extend this. And here this is a simple constructor where we have to provide the source. This source is nothing but a information about who is publishing. So here let's say this is the publisher this publisher details. So you can say that this is my source. So here I am passing this object. So all the information about this publisher that's all. Okay. And the messages whatever the message we want to publish. So this could be like more fields which you want. So here currently I have only one field which I want to publish into my payload. So that's why I have only message but you can have more and this is just a getter. So this is very very simple class of a event message which I want to publish. Now I have one bean of let's say that my event publisher. So this is the publisher which is going to publish it. Okay. So I am using this application event publisher. So this is already present into the spring framework. It is an interface you can say that which abstract the logic of publishing an event like it's not uh there are lot of things involved when publishing an event. So all those things are abstracted to us. All we have to do is we have to invoke this method publish event. That's all I will tell you internally what it does. Okay. But for now consider this. This is the interface which makes our job easy. We we just have to invoke publish event. That's all. And we just have to pass our payload or you can say that event which we have to publish. So that's why I have autowired this publisher object application event publisher and this is my publish method. Internally I am using this publisher object and I'm calling just publish event and this is my event or message my custom event. So I'm creating a new object my custom event source is like who is publishing. So this is the uh publisher right? So source about this and the message which I want to publish. Okay. So this is the simple publishing logic I have. So this is done. Now here listeners we can have so many listeners. So I am just creating one listener. So here if you see this is just a bean like my event listener annotated with at the rate component. So here I have put created one listener add the rate event listener and which event it is handling any method name you can give. So I am handling my custom event. So this is listening to this. So similarly we can have different listener listening to different different events. Okay. So let's say event two. So the listener three might be listening to this event two something. But this event which I am creating it is listening to my custom event this one. And once the event is received this is just an object right? So you can just access whatever you want to access. Okay. So here I'm doing event.get get message and so that this message I can get. Okay. So here very important thing is that this is the very very minimalistic code you required to test how event is published within one application. How it will work internally I will tell you. So okay. So here I am just adding a normal controller just to test the flow. So here uh I autowired this publisher. This is the publisher right? So I have now its object here. Okay. And using this object I am invoking its publish message. This publish message method I am invoking so that uh this get invoked. So this is just to test the flow. And now from postman I am just invoking this endpoint within app publish. So this endpoint I invoke I pass the message hello world. Now what it will do? It will invoke our publisher publish method. So this one. So it invoked this method and pass the message hello world. Now it is doing publisher.publish event. It creates a new object and pass this. So here if you see the output it says received event message hello world. So this is we have printed here receive event message hello world. So even though we have invoked this from the controller, it just published an event. It hasn't invoked this directly. So internally it is able to find this listener and invoking it properly. So how's it working? See this it is very important to understand that one. So in the publisher, so we have a publisher. So we have multiple listener. Okay. So here this was our publisher and there we were publishing an event. So internally it goes to one of the helper class. So see it internally goes to this class simple application event multiccaster on Java. So this is the framework code. You can uh dig deeper into it. You can put a debugger point and see how it is working. So you will encounter this code what it will do it is see it is iterating it is iterating over a list of listeners okay so here what I'll tell you that when we create a listener like this and when you start an application internally it creates a list like this okay my custom event this is the event who is listening. So my event listener is listening. Listener one, listener two, listener three. So for each event it has a list of listeners who are listening. Okay. So it has complete detail about it. All which method need to be invoked. Okay. What all the parameters is required like all the details. So it stores certain information that okay for this event what are all the listeners I have to pass the or publish the event. So it is iterating over the list and what list based on the type. So event type what whatever the event we have its type we have. So based on that it will get a list of all the listeners of it and then it is invoking that listener. So here if you see this is all the information you will get about a listener. So let's say the type is my custom event. This is the message type right? This is the message type here. So I want to see that hey who is listening to this event because we are we have published this event in publish event we have published this my custom event. So I need to check who is listening to this event. So I am taking out a list based on that give me all the listener who are listening to my custom event. So you get this kind of information here. I'm zooming it. Hey what's the bean name? what's the method name I have to invoke okay so full details all the it has all the target method method keys everything okay about if there are let's say 100 listener it have all 100 listener information about it okay and one by one it is invoking this listener so one thing you got to know that this is the flow when you invoke a publish and pass an event it internally goes to this multiccaster which iterate over this list of listeners which it take out based on this event and invoke the method one by one. So it is very similar to observer design pattern in LLD and it's all happening in the sync manner within an application within one application this is the flow but now we are talking about distributed
