=== Event publishing in Distributed Microservices (Spring Cloud Bus) (661s - 1921s) ===

microservices okay microservices one which is act as a publisher now it has to broadcast an event to multiple microservices which are act as let's say listeners or consumers Now they are not within one application. So how it will work? That's where spring cloud bus comes into the picture. But again whatever we have understood about one application that info or you can say that that logic is still there even in the spring cloud bus. How? So see this understand with this flow. Now let's say this is microser A which is currently acting as a publisher. It published an event. Now this event earlier it was what your where is our event? Yeah. So earlier it was application event. Whatever the my custom event it extend application event. Now here whatever the event we will pass here. Whatever the event we will pass that would be a subclass of remote application event. Remote application event means it is not within a same class of same application. This event has to go to a remote destination somewhere. So using that our spring cloud was intercepted. Once spring cloud was intercepted it make use of our message broker infrastructure. So our message broker let's say rabbit MQ or Kafka that should be present up and running. Okay. And whatever the logic whatever the configuration we have it's totally like should be present. Spring cloud bus only use it. It do not manage it. It only use it to send the message. So spring cloud bus intercept your event serialize it. put it into JSON form and use your message broker and send the message. So internally it create let's say you are using rabbit MQ internally it will create a que it will create an exchange and then it will bind it with a routing key it will do everything which is abstracted to us we don't even know okay only thing is we have to grant access to the spring cloud bus hey this is the message broker you can use internally if let's say if you have Kafka it will take care of creating the topic inside it will take care of creating the partition ation everything so everything is abstracted to us we are not going to manage the message broker very important I'm saying you we are not managing message broker with spin cloud bus okay so what's the retry mechanism how you handle the failure what are the offset handling nothing is managed by spin cloud bus it is just a layer which is used to just send a message and it make use of message broker now message broker again pass it to the spring cloud bus which is in another application. Now it des serialize it. D serialize it means JSON to Java object and it pass to simple application event multiccaster. So the same thing is happening but here if you see this publish event is present into one application now ultimately is reached to simple application event multiccaster into different application and from there it broadcast to the event listeners. So this is happening like it is publish event is coming from a same application. Simple application multiccaster like okay I am getting an event maybe it is from the same application but internally splink crowd bus abstracted all the info. So from which micros service how message broker is used, how it is uh you can say that listening to the queue or topic fetching it and it only pass serialize it and then pass it to the simple application event multiccaster. So this flow is clear. So even though spring cloud was we are using we had to understand how in one application it is working that will give us better clarity. So spring cloud bus abstract all the details regarding message broker. If you are using rabbit QMQ we don't have to create exchange. We don't have to create Q. We don't have to bind the Q and exchange using routing key. Everything is decided by spring cloud bus. Similarly if you are using Kafka we don't have to create topics. We don't have to create partition. We don't have to manage offsets etc. So it's all abstracted to us. And that's why very important again I am repeating spring cloud buzz is just a wrapper above the message broker do not use it for critical message where you need full control over topic creations retry mechanism message persistence acknowledge if you have all this requirement don't use spring cloud bus only use spring cloud bus which for low volume non-critical messages like refreshing the config clear the cache which is you can say that even if it got delayed or uh if it doesn't success and next time you refresh or next time you clear the cache it should work fine. So less critical and low volume traffic you should use spring cloud bus. It is not recommended for critical high volume system because it do not give us a way to control our message broker. So wherever our message broker is, it's just a layer above it just uses it and pass the message and internally it just creates some temporary queue exchange whatever it does we don't know it all abstracted to us. Okay. So understood in what use case you have to use and in what use case scenarios we don't have to use spring cloud bus. So let's do this producer and you can say that listener or consumer in different different microser now they are not in same application. So lot do a setup. So one thing you know that when they are in different different microser you need a message broker. So for testing we have to set up a some message broker. So for now I am using rabbit MQ. So if you have Mac you can use this command to install the rabbit MQ. If you don't have and you can it's very easy to install and start whether it's Windows and Mac OS. So very simple I just installed the Rabbit MQ and using this command I started it. So over this local host and this port you see that rabbit MQ is started username password default is guest guest. So my message broker is started. So first first setup is done. Now second setup is publisher. So now I am setting the publisher. So in the pom.xml we have to add this dependency. We have to tell what message booker I am using. So currently rabbit MQ is the is following the AMQ protocol. Okay, AMQP protocol and uh so that's why I have added this dependency. If you are using Kafka then you can double check it's uh spring cloud starter bus Kafka is the dependency you need. Double check it. Okay. So first thing is we have to have a dependency in the publisher. Second is here whatever the message broker you have to provide an access. So host port number username password. Okay. So this I provided so that my producer is able to connect to the message broker. Again this is just for testing. That's why I have username password here. Otherwise never put your secret or credentials in application.properties like this. It should always be keep safe in some uh secret manager or it will be passed to an environment variable. So this is just for testing. Okay. I have an application name let's say producer service running on port number 8081. And this is one very important where most of the engineer who are working with spring cloud was faces the problem. Each producer or you can say that each application which is making use of this is message broker it which is making use of a spring cloud bus spring cloud bus it is granted one unique ID or you can say that bus ID okay why it is important now understand with this one so here let's say application one application two application three there are so many applications each application which are connected to a bus let's say this is a spring cloud bus understand that this is a spring cloud bus all connected through some message broker spring cloud bus spring cloud bus okay each app has a unique ID or you can say that bus ID and the format is your application name application name colon port number colon some random UU ID it internally generate like this and any application which is publishing an event let's say app one is publishing an event to a message broker through spring cloud bus so spring cloud bus has a condition hey application one if you are publishing an event the event is should be from you only you should not publish an event on somebody's else's behalf. So whoever is publishing an event, it also pass its ID. Hey, this is my ID, I am publishing it. So Spring Cloud was internally has this whatever the application bus ID which we have given. If you don't give it internally, what bus ID it will compute? application name producer service port number 8081 and some random UU ID which you don't even know so it will generate this okay so it has application bus ID which it generates and then whatever we will pass while publishing an event while publishing an event through remote we have to pass bus ID so if you just pass hey producer service so internal it match hey this This is what I computed the application bus ID and this is what you pass it didn't match. So means you are not the one you are publishing on somebody else's behalf. So your pub publishing event will not even work. It will not even publish. So that's why we takes the control of the bus ID naming. So the bus ID naming I have given is that hey this is the application name and hyphen this is the port number you should use. So now this is the bus ID it will generate. So internally when I will publish an event I will also pass this name only producer service port number 8081. So I will pass this only and internally it will compute the spring cloud bus bus ID. Now since I have overrided it, it will compute this. So now they both will match and the publish will work. you will get to know where it will use but this is very important. Okay. So we have given one unique bus ID to this application. Now this thing done. So we have added the dependency. We have added the application.properties. Now this is my event which I need to publish. So you have a publisher which need to publish an event to a message broker. So this is my event. my remote custom event. Now look carefully that it extend remote application event. So earlier when within a one application we were doing it, it was application event but we want spring cloud bus to intercept this event. So that's why it need to extend remote application event. Then only your spring would be a spring cloud bus would be able to intercept it. So here this is the hierarchy. So serializable then event object then it's uh then application event extend this event object. Earlier we were using application event but if you want a remote and want spring cloud bus to intercept it then we have to use this. It's again a child of application event only. Okay. Now here one more difference you see is that earlier we have only source like who is publishing it like this object who is the publisher. Now here we have origin service destination. Very important to understand these two. Origin service destination. Origin services who is publishing the event which application not uh this class not publisher class. We have already covered this in the source. It is this object. So it has about this object information origin services which application is publishing an event. I told you hey this is the application which is publishing an event. So we want to give this name. If you give any name let's say producer service internally it will check hey whatever the name you have given in the origin service is it matching with the this application bus ID. So currently the bus ID is computed with this. If you don't use this then bus ID it will compute internally like this application column port columns and random UU ID. If these two doesn't match your publishing will not work. Okay. So origin service is like which application is publishing an event. Destination means this message is intent to which all listeners. So now let's say you have a publisher. You publish an event to listener one, listener two, listener three, listener four. There are so many listeners. Now let's say in destination we can say that hey this message is intend for listener one and listener two only. If you say that like okay doesn't matter it publish it to all you can put eststeras or null. So both means that publish to all and message is nothing like uh like what message you want to publish. Okay. So it just whatever the message we have it just fill it up. Okay. You can have more info. This is just like I have only one field message which I want to transfer. So I already told you this very important part origin service is very important. Okay. So we have created our event message which we have to publish. Now the publisher which so same very similar to what we have done in the single application itself. So we have a application event publisher again similarly like one single application here I have a method publish I am doing publish event now here I'm creating my new remote custom event passing the source that this is the class object which is doing the publish this is the origin service ID which information about which application is publishing so here if you see that I carefully sending the specific bus ID itself. So from the value from the application.properties whatever I have configured the same value I'm passing so that internally the condition should get true. You can test like you can pass anything producer service your publish event will not even work. Okay. And then destination I put S like what whoever are the listeners to this bus pass it to all and the message. Okay. very very similar to application single application. So now that's publisher is done. Okay, I just added a controller class just to initiate the flow. So has a publish endpoint which is just initiating the publish this one. This invoke this method that's all nothing else. So your publisher has setup is done. Your broker setup is done. Rabbit MQ this is done. Publisher is done. Okay. Now we are setting up a listener. In listener also we need this pom because it need to connect to the rabbit MQ itself. Okay. So we have a dependency and in the application.properties we have provided all the credentials uh so that it can successfully connect with the message broker. Okay. And this is the application name consumer port number running on 80082 different port number. So pom done application.property done. Now I am adding a listener. So again everything is same whatever we were doing in the same single application. Now we are just like listener is present into different application. So event listener. So now here if you see event listener is same. It is listening to my remote custom event. So we can put this class here. this class right which we have to publish message we can put it into some common place so that both publisher and your listener can access that remote custom event class or you can duplicate it like in both the application you have this class but it need to be same. So my recommendation would be you have some common configuration or common uh you can say that repo where you have all the common utility. So here you can say that my remote custom event class should be there so that your producer can listen use this listener can use this class same common code. So for testing purpose uh I will share the get link in that one even in the listener I have this class copied. So it's currently I'm duplicating it. So this class present here also this class present here also. Okay. But the moto is that event listener is listening to this event my remote custom event. Okay. And just printing it. That's all. Yeah. And one one last thing in the listener whatever the uh application you have here you have to use at the rate remote application event scan and you have to provide the base package like where is this event remote event present where I have to look into it. So this package and all its sub package spring boot will scan. Why it is required? Because I told you that this is the flow publisher when publish spring cloud bus intercepted it serialize it. It's a JSON form. It pass it to the message broker presses broker. It goes to spring cloud bus as listener side. It need to des serialize means JSON to Java object. Now it need to des serialize right? JSON to Java object. So while d serializing it, it need to find out this java object. Okay. So it need to find out this my remote custom event. So where it has to look, it doesn't know. So that's where with remote application event scan, we are telling hey either you can look into this package or all its sub packages. So that dialization should work properly and it able to find this class. Okay, that's all. So our listener is also set up. So our listener is also set up. Now let's start publisher and listener.
