=== Dynamic Refresh using Spring Cloud Bus (2050s - 2934s) ===

spring cloud bus is working. Now the real world use case is dynamic refresh. So now this is where we finished our previous lecture that earlier our without spring cloud bus. This is our setup for the uh configuration when we manage a central configuration and we have to dynamically refresh. This is our setup on config server. We have to invoke the refresh and all the 100 services we have to invoke it. But with the spring cloud bus this is going to be our setup. We have config server which now act as a publisher which going to publish an event to some message broker let's say Kafka and from this all microservices will listen and their event listener method will get invoked okay and here in the config server instead of normal refresh we have to invoke actuator bus refresh because bus refresh it will publish the event we will see So first thing first like you have to see the previous videos otherwise um because many things we have already set up the central configuration we have already set up central uh config servers this microservices everything is done we are now just integrating the spring cloud bus. So if you want a complete detail for kindly check out the central configuration and refresh scope dynamic uh refresh scope okay then after that this setup would be clear to you. So here at the config file no change it's a get repo which holds our application dot properties. So no change in that one in config server now see what change I am doing. So everything we have previously I am just adding the AMQP message broker support. Okay. So that our config server should be able to connect to the message broker and in the application.properties I have added the message broker credentials and also one more since we have to invoke bus refresh endpoint so that's why I am exposing it. I have already covered that in the actuator like or in the previous videos. So you can check it out. That's why I'm saying it has a prerequis uh central configuration and refresh scope two videos. Okay. So I'm exposing this bus refresh endpoint that the minimal change I have done into the config server that's all the dependency and the property. Now you might be thinking hey where we are publishing where we are doing dotpublish okay that is within this API when we do /actuator/bus refresh right bus refresh internally we all framework provid us the code for publishing an event to this message broker I will show you which class does that so now publishing is done now the microservices again dependency same message broker and in the application.properties the credentials so that they can connect. Okay. Now with this dependency our spring cloud bus dependency has come. So no change in controller whatever we have previously no change in configuration properties which we have to dynamic refresh. That's all. So here if you see our consumer is also done. We have just provided the spring cloud bus dependency and the message broker details. Now you might be listening here chance where is at the rate event listener so that it can listen to the event whatever it will publish that is also provided by the framework we don't have to write it I will also show you how so let's see that so start the server for both config server and order microserver again let's see this one so that it would be clear so I'm stopping this consumer I am now moving to refresh scope I have everything updated into the git. Okay. So you can refer the code. So refresh scope has two modules. One is server and one is order service. So let me start the so yeah and one more thing currently the central config let's say has this hello from order tab. So here so this one the central config hello from order tab. So let me push this to this end uh branch refresh scope hyphen test. So Okay. So currently my this div properties is holding this hello from order dev. Okay. Now we have to start the server for our config management. So let's say let me check its property. It is currently listening to the main but I have change on refresh scope test. Okay. So bus refresh is there. All endpoint is there. All looks good. Only this if you have seen the previous video you know what's the use of this. It is fetching the properties from this branch of this config. So I am starting the server. [snorts] Tomcat is started on 888. So my server is started. Now I am starting the different application micros service. &gt;&gt; 8080. So we have done this two steps. So our order application is started on 8080 and our config server is started on 8888 and we have this currently file stored in our central config. Now let's invoke the order microservices. So this is the endpoint we have exposed in order microservices, right? So /fetch. So now we are invoking this. So here /fet. So here when you invoke it what you are getting hello from order dev. This is what we have currently. Okay. So it's properly fetching the property value. Hello from order dev. Now update the property in the central config. Okay. So now what I am doing is in the central config I am changing it. This is updated something. This is updated. And now I am just committing it and pushing it again on the branch. So this is updated. So I have updated the value from this to something like this is updated. Okay. Now let's hit the order API again. So let's hit the order API again. You will see that same thing. Hello from order there. Counter value is two means it we have hit the second time. We haven't restarted or anything. So the same server is running but it you see that it is not yet updated. It is expected same old value because we haven't invoked actuator/bus refresh bus refresh. Now let's invoke actuator/bus refresh endpoint on config server. Okay. So here if you see config server running on 8888. Now I invoking actuator/bus refresh send. So yes success. Now I have done this step. Okay. So I have invoked on config server 888. Now let hit the order API again. So in order API I haven't invoked the / refresh endpoint. I'm just again calling /fetch. Done. What I'm getting hello from order dev. This is updated. So now here if you see the latest config value I am getting without even I have invoked / refresh endpoint or slash anything. So how does it work internally? Because we have seen that in our config server we are not doing publish who is publishing it and in our order we are not putting any at the rate event listener who is listening it. So this is how it works internally. So on the config server when we call bus refresh endpoint internally it invokes this endpoint refresh bus endpoint it is annotated with like /actuator/bus refresh. So this endpoint will get invoked. It's already present into the framework. Now here if you see this method will get invoked and what it is doing it is publishing an event. Which event? Refresh remote application event. So this is the source. This is the bus ID it is passing. Destination is null. Pass it to all. Very important. Now here if you see one question should comes to your mind. Hey Shri, it is directly publishing it. So the setup is like that. So we have a config in greo. We have here central uh config server which fetches from the config and from this config server our application fetch order application is fetched from this config server. But from this logic what I see is that when I invoke the bus refresh it directly do the publish. It directly do the publish. Hey, so it is uh sorry not directly to the order server it message to the broker message broker and from this message broker order application. So this is our spring cloud bus setup. Hey config server is directly doing publish but it hasn't done refresh itself. It should refresh its properties first, right? Then only you should publish it because once you publish it, the application will catch it and they will ask, "Hey, config server give me the latest property." But config server hasn't uh done the refreshing yet. Okay? Because what code I'm seeing is when I invoke /bus refresh, it is just publishing an event where it is refreshing itself. That's a spring cloud bus flow. Understand that this will become more clear. So this is what happening when you invoke /bus refresh our config server control goes. Okay this part this class and it will publish an event publish and it will goes to the message broker. What event? Refresh remote application event. Refresh remote application event. this it will publish. Now what's the destination? Null means all application which are listening to this bus. So in this bus even the config server is listening itself. So this message broker will pass it to all the application which are listening to this bus. So it will pass it to config server. It will pass it to the order microser because this is also listening to the same bus. Okay. So it will pass it to the both. Now in the config server there is a class already again framework class refresh listener which has this method context refresh dotre. [snorts] So in the refresh listener there is something called add the rate event listener present that will get invoked and that will do context refresher dot refresh. So it will fetch the config from the git repo. Similarly, order microservices refresh listener which is already present into the framework class has this event listener present which does context refresh. So this cont uh event listener is listening to this event. So that will do refresh and it will fetch the latest config from the config server. So you might be thinking that okay now I understood that the same message is broadcasted to config server and they both have a listener already present so they are already doing the refresh config okay but what if order microservices it received first meanwhile config server hasn't done the refresh so generally let's say that assume that if the event is broadcasted and order service is going first its listener has invoked first even though it hasn't done its refresh completed and when it refreshes called it will invoke the config server hey config server give me the latest data in that scenario since config server hasn't completed its refresh yet it make a fresh call to config fet the latest and then give it to order so this is how it's working internally [snorts] so I I know it's a lot of information
