=== Logger Level and Priority (Error, Warn, Info, Debug, Trace) (1347s - 1616s) ===

very important. So for each logger object we configure a log level. So there are multiple level. We have error, warning, info which is the default, debug, trace. So error has the highest priority you can say and trace has the lowest priority. Okay. So the priority goes from top to bottom. So for each logger object which we are creating we can assign one log level to it or you can say that not log level we can assign a level to it. So level could be one of this five. If you don't provide this level by default it would be info. And now what happened is that each log statement what we are doing is that log debug. So this is one statement log.debug log.info log error. So each log statement implicitly also has a level. Okay. So for now currently I am putting log debug. So this log statement has a level debug. So there are two part a logger object. logger object has level and the each log statement also has a level. Okay. Now what the purpose of this level? Now you can see the logger prints a log statement only if log statement level is same or higher than the logger configured level. So here if you see this diagram so this is my logger object and the level I have set is one let's say w a r and one this is my level I have set so each logger object we can set a level now using this object I can log multiple log statement logger object dot error so this is one statement so I am this is the error statement this is a warning statement this This is a info log statement. This is a debug statement. This is a trace. Okay. Now here I told you that logger prints only a log statement which has same or higher than the logger configured level. So what is the level one? What is the priority? This one. So same or higher. So it will only entertain this log statement which are either warn or error. So only these two would be entertained and this info debug trace would be skipped in this case. You got it? So only these two log statement will be printed by the logger as these log statement level is equal or higher than the logger level. Logger level is one. So equal or higher than so error has higher priority than one and one is equal. But this since these are lower priority. So this would be skipped because I have set my logger object level. Okay. Enterain either one or higher priority than this. And whenever any statement comes I can either uh skip it if its priority is less than what I have set for my logger object. So see this example uh simple program the same thing. I am getting an object of a logger. Okay. And uh I haven't defined anything. I haven't defined what's the level. I haven't defined what's the level. So what would be the default one? Info. Okay. And I have log statement. Log error. So using this object I am creating multiple log statement. One is error warn info debug trace. Now when you run it, if you see the default is uh info for this my logger object for my logger object. So it will only entertain info and above. Okay. So error would be entertained, warn would be entertained info and but it will skip debug and trace. So if you see this error, warning info but no debug, no trace.
