=== Simple Logging Implementation in Spring Boot application (338s - 524s) ===

So let's see what it takes to implement the log functionality. So here very very simple I have one rest controller. So till now whatever we have done take a very simple spring boot application. So till all you have a uh dependency is your web the very basic one. Okay. And I have just simple written a rest controller. And here if you see this is the first thing logger factory dot get logger and given the class name dot class. Okay. So with this I am getting a logger object and using this logger object within a particular method I am just logging a event log.info f the payment successfully. Okay so I am logging something okay now if I run hit this endpoint slash payments if I hit this / payments. Okay. So it the output you see is that successfully fetch all payments. So this is the return type successfully fetch all payments. But I'm also logging log.info fetch the payment successfully. So if you see the console. So this is my console. You see this f the payment successfully. So logging worked. So don't go inside this for now like hey how it worked actually. But all I wanted to show you that you don't need any additional dependency. Okay. All you have to just is like whatever the applications which you have taken out from initializer with the starting this web itself. So here if you see that this okay this is the initial spring boot starter web that's all. Okay, with that itself you will get the dependency of SLF 4J because logger factory is present into SLF 4j and you are hitting get logger which is also present into SLF 4j and its implementation is within this and this is the default. This library also comes by default log log back. Okay. And also what is the default appender? It's console appender is the default. So they have one appender also and default is console one itself. So that's why whenever I do log info ultimately where it goes to the console. Okay, things will get little clear but for now moto is that what it takes to implement the log functionality. So if you see that very simple all libraries are already present you have to just get an object and start logging the events. Okay, but how it's working? What exactly
