=== Dependency required for Logging (524s - 757s) ===

happened behind the scene? That is now things will become interesting. So first thing is dependency. So when we add below dependency. So here if you see that spring boot starter web internally also bring spring boot starter. Okay. So internally it further add this dependency also. SLF 4G API jar log back classic and logback core jar. So these two is nothing but you can say that part of an implementation library and SLF 4J is the API logger API. Okay. So these dependency will automatically get added when you add a spring boot starter dependency in your application. So one question might come to your mind. Hey Shri, so by default Spring Boot brings the logback library. Okay we got it. Yes, it is bringing logback library. But what if I want to use log 4j2 then I have to add dependency of log 4j2 like like so this is the dependency you have to add a new dependency that org springframework.boot boot spring boot starter log 4j2. So this dependency we have to add. Now in the class path we have two implementation of library of slf 4j. One is which we have manually added log 4j2 and one which automatically added by the spring framework in the starter when it it comes with the starter itself. So which implementation library will be used by the framework? Because we have now two implementation one we have added and one is added by default. So what this is a framework code. So if you go inside log logger factory what it does is internally if you see it will it uh so it has a provide a list. So it will get two and it simply do get zero. So sometime you might see you get log 4 J2 sometime you get log back. So definitely in production this is not a reliable thing to do. So here I'm just starting an application with this. I have manually added it and I know that by default spring framework will also bring log back library also. So if I started the application here if you see it is also showing the warning class path contains multiple SLF 4G providers but since it is doing get zero your application will start normally but whether it is using log back or log 4j 2 you don't it's doing get zero it can be anything so for production this is not reliable instead we should specy specifically exclude the default library. If you are planning to manually adding the library so let's say I wanted to use log 4j2 so from this starter I have to exclude the starter logging so this starter logging actually brings this log back classic log back core that that implementation libraries I don't want so these two implementation library comes from starter logging okay so that's why I have ex excluded it Okay. So from this library exclude this logging sub library you can say. So got it. Uh till now it is clear right?
