=== UML (Low Level) of Logging Framework (757s - 1247s) ===

Now let's go to the second part. So dependency part is clear. Now let's focus more on get logger object. So here we are finding out a logger object. Right? So here if you see what we are doing is logger factory dot get logger payment controller dotclass and it is giving us a logger object. So this logger is nothing you can say that it's an implementation of slf for 4j generally we should be getting it. So how this is working internally. So see this is the you can say that UML diagram internally of the logger framework. So with this everything should be clear like how it is working. So let's say that this is first logger interface or do SLF4J okay this is an API. Okay so that's why it's an interface. So this class logger is an interface. Okay. And that's what I am getting here interface. Now this interface is implemented by multiple libraries which are generally an implementation of this SLF 4j. So I have one logger class here present into the logback also. I have the logger class which is present into log 4j also. Okay. So this logger has like logger name, logger 11, logger level, parent child information which we will see. Okay. But for now understand that in SLF 4J has one class logger which is you can say that it's an interface and this has multiple implementation. One implementation is provided by logback classic. Another implementation is provided by log 4j. So different libraries different implementation of this. Okay. So ultimately when we get an object logger factory dot get logger we get this logger interface one. Okay. So ultimately this interface holds an either reference to either logback classic logger or log 4j core logger. Okay. So that is first thing. Now here if you see when you do logger factory dot get logger method when you invoke this one what is happening? So control is coming here logger factory. So logger factory is part of API SLF 4j library. So what it do is it does two thing. First it find out what's the implementation whether log back is the implementation or log 4j is the implementation which I have to use and how it will determine from the library in the class path which library is present. Okay. So we have already seen that like whatever in the pom you have added a dependency. If you have added log 4j dependency you have to exclude this one. Okay. Uh if you not then by default log back will come. Okay. But anyhow only one should be present. If you have two then also it will do get zero. In the class path it will have only one provider. Okay. So it knows that from the class path which one is the implementation I have to use whether log back or log 4j. Okay then it calls I logger factory. So I logger factory is also part of sl 4j. So it has a method let's say get logger and the name. So this name is nothing but a logger name. So if you see that logger each logger has a name. Okay. So now this I logger factory. So here if you see that it's an interface. So see SLForge is nothing but an interface. No implementation. So this is also an interface. So it is implemented by classes which are present into either logback or log 4j. So in logback let's say one class is logger context which implement this logger factory. And this method get logger method is also provide an implementation. So here if you notice these classes they maintain a cache string, logger. So what it does? So when you do logger factory dot get logger and provide the name. So this is the name of the logger actually. So it will not create new object every time. Okay. So what it will do is it will first we are calling logger factory get logger method. Okay. It will knows that which library it has to use whether log back or log 4j. Then it will pass the request to logger factory. From logger factory ultimately it goes to one of the get logger of either log back or log forj. Now let's say that currently we are using the default one. It will goes to the logback one. Okay. Now here if you see it is maintaining the map in the get logger it first check this cache or you can say that this map. So this string is nothing but a name. Okay the name which is this coming. So if for this name logger is already present so it will just reuse that object. It will not create new object every time. So you can say that so for one name one logger is one logger object is present. Similarly log 4j has also doing the same thing but in a different way. So it is also maintaining a map and it has its own uh objects logger context and all but the concept is same. They both are doing caching. Okay. So for one name one logger object should be present. So when you do get logger what it will do is it will check this map if the for this name for this name if there is no object present it will create one object. So that's why I put a it has a so it will create one object. So if you're using a logback so it will create one object of this and put into the map and then ultimately return an object. So this is clear okay go through it again it will get clear but yes this is the UML diagram you can say that of a log framework. So what logger factory does? So this logger factory so logger factory finds which SLF 4j implementation to use. Okay. And it is done based on I've already told you uh library which is presented to the class path and invokes the logger context of the specific implementation whether it will call the logger context. You can say that if it is using log back if it is using log for it will invoke this abstract logger adapter and this logger context generally here I'm uh specifically saying from this uh log back perspective but it's a logic is same mostly for both log 4G also it does caching based on the logger name and logger name could be anything it can be class name it can be package name or any string. Okay. So if for a particular name logger object is already present, it reuse it. Else create a new and put it into the cache.
