=== Understand Architecture (High Level) of Logging Framework (105s - 338s) ===

logging where we have like multiple microservices and all we first need to understand how logging works in a single application and once that done achieving this in a distributed logging is very very easy. Okay. So see this flow very important flow and here if you see that the first is your spring boot application. We have an application and with this our application the first the second thing you can have is like SLF4J uh you can say that interface. So this is an interface which has only provided APIs no implementation at all as SLF 4J fullform is simple logging facade for Java. So see even the full form has the thing called facade. If you remember from the low-level design facade design pattern only expose APIs no implementation. So it's an interface actually. So this is a logging interface or you can say that uh a library which only provide APIs for the logging but its implementation. So there are different libraries. So its implementation generally we have log back which is the default which is spring boot provide a default. Okay. And we have another uh framework is log 4j2. So this is also an implementation of slf 4j. Okay. Log 4j2 full form is logging for java version 2 and the logback is the one uh which spring boot provides you. Okay. So its library automatically comes when you export a spring boot application from a spring initializer. So this library automatically comes and also this this interface already comes and this implementation. So that's why I mentioned default. So now you got the implementation also for the interface. Now this implementation make use of appender. So there is a concept called appender. What does appender do? You can say that it's a component whose task is to decide the destination. Destination of what? Destination of log. So whatever I'm trying to log where it will go whether it will goes to console, whether it will goes to some file, whether it will goes to DB, whether it will goes to cloud or Kafka, whatever. So where whatever you are trying to log its destination is decided by appender. Okay. So our implementation library make use of appender to generate an output. So output is like if your appender is file appender then your output would be some whatever the file name you will give dot log a log file will be generated. If you choose console then all the logs would get printed into your console a standard output. Okay. So once the output is generated then we have log aggregation tools like data dog elastic search and kibbana the prompt tail. So the these tools read from the output. Okay. So till our application you can say that control is like where the output will go and after that log aggregation tool task is to read from that file or console or place where the output is kept. Okay. So this is the flow.
