=== Advantage of Parent-Child Logger (Inheritance, Propagation etc) (2063s - 2855s) ===

advantage of maintaining the parent child relationship, right? What's the point that hey I have a parent and uh like I also have a child information that okay com has childcom do.concepts like all this thing what's the point? So one important point is log level inheritance. So we don't need to configure each and every class. For example, I can set level on package logger itself. And all its child automatically inherited. So here if you see I showed you one example where we are setting the level for our logger. Okay. Now let's say this is one logger. It's this is the name. Okay. Now let's say you have thousands of classes. Okay. Do you want to change? So by default is info. Let's say you want to change it to debug. You have thousands of classes. Will you change for each class in the configuration that logging dolevel.com dotconcepts dot payment controller debug logging.le.comconcept do user controller debug like this no so that's where log level inheritance comes I can just login.le.com level.com. So I can tell uh set the level till parent which parent so let's say till this parent I can set a level now all its child classes will inherit this level itself. So like here I have done logging. So till com I have said the level debug. Now all its child loggers will inherit this level. So now I have uh hit this endpoint again. Okay. Now here if you see what is the uh level of the com is debug and this is like com dot concepts dot payment controller. So definitely it's a child of this com only right. So debug is applied to this also this logger also. So debug is applied means this is entertained, warning would be entertained, info would be entertained, debug would be entertained but trace would be rejected because it has less priority than debug. So here if you see it's work and also another advantage is that we can override a specific child behavior. So let's say that I have thousands of classes. So that's why I have set at uh my you can say that parent logger itself that any child loggers which are under this com use a level debug but for any specific class or for any specific logger you want to override it you can do that so that's why I'm doing within this com there could be so many loggers but for comconcepts do this specific controller I can override to that is also possible. The third is that accepted logs are propagated upward. This is very very important. Okay. So understand that if log is rejected stop do not propagate it. What does log is rejected means? So we have already seen that that u here if you see this is one example of log rejected here let's say that what is the level of this controller so logger logging dot level and we have given the name of the logger right com.concepts concepts dop payment controller which is this logger we have given debug this is the level now let's say you are doing this let's say you don't have this you are trying to log trace trace log so this trace priority is lesser than debug okay the level of this logger so this statement is rejected so this is known as statement rejected log rejected but this Other part if you see this other logger logger dot log dot error error log so this log statement priority error is higher than the level of this logger. So this is accepted. So that's why it is known as accepted log. Now come back to again to that one. If log is rejected stop do not propagate it. And that's what I have just uh told you that what does log rejected means and accepted log is propagated upward till root and all appenders are executed very important by default appenders by default this propagation is true but we can make it false we will see that so let's understand this propagation better so I told you that this line Repeat it again. Only accepted log is propagated upward till root and all appenders are executed. So appenders just to remind it's a component that decide where the log will go. It will go to the console or file or DB or gafka or some cloud etc. So this is just like decide where the log will go and also we have seen hierarchy like hierarchy is maintained by the logging framework that the the higher the parent of all is root and after that it keep maintaining the hierarchy. Now see that appender for each logger we can have an appender. Okay. So for some we don't have an appender for some we can have an appender. Okay. Now here if you see what is the level of this logger com do.concepts.p paymentcontroller. So you understand this hierarchy now right? So I have I have this class I have created only one logger object. So you know that this payment controller is like this package com dot concepts dot payment controller but it don't only create this object. It create a complete hierarchy. It will create an object of this com. Its child is then com concept this one and then it will create com concept payment controller which is a child of com concept and ultimately everyone is a child of this root one. So root is at top. So each logger we can have an appender. So for now I am saying that maybe some logger we cannot uh we don't have any appender or some we have an appender that let's say root is deciding it log need to be printed to console this uh logger com.concepts concepts logger decide that log should be printed to the file and for here I don't have any appender I don't have any appender now when you have this code now here if you see what is the level of this logger object payment controller right this one the level is info okay now you have a log statement log info so definitely this would be accepted because it has equal level of the logger. So that would be accepted. So what I told you that accepted log is propagated upward till root and all appenders are executed. So it once it is accepted okay it will move upward. Okay first here it will execute all appender at this level first. So currently I don't have any appender. So nothing will get printed. So this log log.info info. This is the info. Will it get printed here in this logger? No. Because appender is the one which decide the destination of the log. So currently it doesn't have any appender. So this logging will not not be printed currently anywhere. Then it will go upward to this one its parent. So it will check does parent has any appender? It will execute that. Okay. This parent says that any log put it to file. So this log.info this statement goes to the file. This appender got executed. Then it goes upward. Then it will say is there any execute appender? No. So it won't do anything. It goes upward till root. It will see any appender. Hey yes. What this appender says that print this log on the console. So what it will do is it will print the log.info to the console also. So here if you see uh this log statement got added to this file and also this got added to console also. So very important part is this line that once a child logger is accepted log event it will always propagate upward and all parent appenders execute regardless of the parent level. So that's why I specifically mention here that payment controller has level info and its parent com has level warning. So now when this log statement log.info info okay and it is coming from this logger payment controller so this got accepted right this logger level is also info and also I'm trying to log a statement is info only so this is accepted so once the log is accepted it will just move upward goes upward and run the appenders now it will not check that okay the parent logger what is the level is only checked only at once. Once it is approved, now it just goes upward and execute the appender. And if you notice one thing in all our previous example, we have not written any appenders and still be able to see the logs on our console. How? So this is we were doing this, right? We just added rest controller. In rest controller, we have this log. This will like this would be the name of our logger. Okay. And you know that object would be created in a hierarchy form. Now when we are doing log.info the by default we haven't provided any level. So it by default level of this logger would be info. So now you are doing log.info. So that has the same level. So this statement would be approved. Now this statement would be approved. Now where it would be shown? So this logger payment controller this logger okay has any appender. We haven't written any appender. So what it will do? How in the console we are able to see this how? So it goes upward. We don't have any appender. It goes upward. Com concept. Have we any appender? No. So that will also not do. It will go up. com has it created any appender we haven't created right yeah even though the name is comconcept paymentscontroller so internally it's created the object with the name to maintain a hierarchy but appender we haven't we haven't added it so here also it won't do anything but ultimately when it goes to the root root has default console appender so I told you that every log accepted log goes up and execute the appenders of the parent till root. So when it goes upward no appender no appender no appender and ultimately in the root we have one console appender already present we don't have to write it and that's why it print into the console. So that's why I told you that when we don't specify the appender accepted log propagate upward and a root logger which framework provides we don't write it it has a console appender present and it print on the console. Okay. So in the next part there are so many
