=== Parent-Child Logger relationship (Logger Hierarchy) (1682s - 2063s) ===

Then we have if you see that the logger object logger object has one parent and the list of logger the child. What does that mean? Very important topic. So here this if you see this UML each logger has parent and the list of child. So what does that mean? So logger framework internally maintain the hierarchy of logger objects. So now let's say when you do this logger factory dot get logger payment controller.class. So this is nothing but your class and its package is com.concepts.p paymentcontroller. So this becomes your name of the logger. So what do you understand with this for now till now that okay for this name one logger object would be created. One logger object would be created and put into the map that uh payment controller com do.concept dot payment controller my logger object. This would be created and put into the cache. This is till now what we understood. But what I told you that logger framework internally maintains the hierarchy of logger objects. Okay. So here if you see it create multiple logger objects. This is first logger object is the which name is root. It is always created. You cannot delete it. So it's a parent of all you can say that always created by framework itself. So this logger object is present and its name is root. Now all the logger which you are going to create further it it would be the child of the root only. So now I have created one object uh logger object for this name com.concept.p paymentcontroller. So first it will create it will create a hierarchy. Okay. So it will create one logger with the name com. So it will create another logger object which is a child of the root and its name is com. Then it will create another logger object which is a child of the com and its name it will give com concepts. com dot concepts. Then it will create another logger object which name is com.concept.p paymentcontroller which is a child of this com concept. Okay. So like that it goes. So maybe let's say some there are some other folder. So not let's say org. So there can have logger name equals to or something. Okay. So like a tree it can happen. So maybe inside this folder com.concept concept you can have like another logger which name equals to let's say com doconcept do user controller okay so you can have like this so it creates a hierarchy so even though you give let's say no uh name like comconcept payment controller it don't just create one object logger object it will create multiple objects in a hierarchy form Okay. If you have like this, if you have only one name, let's say uh payment controller, this is the name, then definitely it's just directly under the root, let's say. But root is the parent of all for sure. Okay. Otherwise, whatever the path you will give, it will follow like this. So, if you have given com.concepts.payment payment controller. So it will create one com then its child is com. do.concept then it child is com.concept dop payment controller. So like this hierarchy would be made and this is if you put a debugger point okay and where you will put a debugger point if you want to see this. So if you can get to know from this itself this UML. Okay. So here if you see this logger okay if you're using a log back if you put at this logger class debugger you will have all this information name level parent child so that's what I did I put a debugger point and I got all this information so here let's put that so currently I have not added the lo for Okay. Two. So I am using the default one log back. So let me start an application. Maybe debug point is already present. Let me hit. No debugger point is not there. So let's put into logger inside a log back. Okay. So see it has name, it has level, it has parent, child. So it has mostly all this thing. So let me put into log.info and from there we will go. So let me hit it log.info. Let's go inside this. I got into logger on java. So logger on java is in which one? Logback classic. So see this. So currently com.concepts.p payment controller its parent is com concepts. So here let's see that the same thing com.p payment.p payment controller its parent is com concepts. Now go to its parent. So name is com concept. Its parent is logger com. So its parent is this com. Now if you go inside this com what its parent root so hierarchy is maintained like this. Okay. then com concept com root. So root would always be there. So you might be thinking what's the
