=== Internal working (1487s - 2791s) ===

told so many step. So many step. It's all abstracted by a spring boot. It's all abstracted by a spring boot. So, now let's go one level deeper because we don't like this level of abstraction. We want something more. Okay? Now, let's go one level deeper and see what we can understand. So, I'm whatever the code I'm showing you, that's let's say conceptual which I believe this what might a SpringBoot doing internally. Okay? So, let's say we are not using SpringBoot at all. So, we have one Kafka consumer. So, within a uh within you can say that the uh Kafka consumer library, there is a class Kafka consumer. So, it's this is the main consumer which we have to create. So, internally what a SpringBoot might be doing is it's creating a new object of Kafka consumer. And if you go to this Kafka consumer class, it accept a properties. This is nothing but a map. So, in this properties, whatever then application.properties we add for consumer Kafka Kafka consumer, that generally get added here. Okay? Now, let's say we are not using a SpringBoot. So, first thing it might be doing is creating all this property and inside this property we have to provide everything bootstrap server group ID key deserializer value deserializer etc. etc. etc. Okay? Now, it will create a new Kafka consumer object new Kafka consumer and the argument it accept is this property. Okay? So, our Kafka consumer object is created at this point of time. Now, this consumer wants to join this group, but which topic it want to subscribe is so there is a method called consumer.subscribe. And you know that one consumer can subscribe so many topics. Okay? So, that's why it has a list. If you go inside this Kafka consumer, you will find the subscribe and which is an array. So, currently let's say I want to subscribe only one topic. So, arrays.add list order-events. So, currently till now I have done this that okay uh I have created a consumer through this properties &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; and I've also tell which event or which topic I want to listen. Done. Now, after that what it might be doing it might be connecting one of the broker and fetch the cluster metadata information. Okay? Using this uh bootstrap server, it connect with one of the cluster broker and fetch the metadata info. Done. Now, this is the important loop. It while true continuously now it work. Now, what it will do is this consumer, what it will do is it will do continuously poll. And internally if you go inside this poll method, this is the main thing it does. Like all here if you see that majority of task which is happening inside the poll itself. So, if it is the first call, first call. Okay? What it will do? It will send the join group request, join group request to group coordinator. Hey, add me to this group. Okay? What it will receive? It will receive the partition assignment. What it uh group coordinator will ultimately will do is group coordinator ultimately will add the consumer into the group and also the partition it want to subscribe from that partition, it will get one assignment that hey, you are now uh dealing with this partition of the topic which you are subscribed. So, it get the partition assignment. Now, internally it will do request the last committed offset. Okay? For this partition which you have assigned, what is the last committed offset? Now, everything is happening within poll internally. It's all abstracted with us. Okay? So, group coordinator will check the consumer offset and find out that, okay, for this partition, this topic, this partition, this group, what is the last offset processed? Okay, it will return that. And after that, once it knows, it will send the fetch request to the partition leader. This is step it will do. Okay? After that, it will send to the order hyphen event, let's say partition it is assigned to. So, it will call the broker, leader broker of this partition two of the order event. And the offset it knows that, hey, I want to read from this offset. So, everything happens in the first call. Now, in the subsequent call, it don't have to add into the group coordinator again, partition assignment, or everything is done. For the subsequent call, what it will do is it will just send the fetch request for the new data continuously, like the same thing. For continue polling and move to step it. It will just keep calling the broker, hey, now return me next 50 data, next 50, next 50. Okay? All this group coordinator thing is all done. So, that's done. So, now let's say you got the records from the poll, you got the records. Let's say you got 50 records. Now, there is a concept called auto commit. Okay? If you remember, I have told you in this consumer we have auto commit. In the auto commit, let's say we have tell that after every 5 second, auto commit should have happened. So, after 5 second means it will check everything in the while loop only. If auto commit enabled, yes, and commit interval passed, it check that, yes, 5 second has been passed, let's say. Then it will commit. So, I If you remember again from the architecture, there is one problem. Say, you have fetch 50 records. Okay? Let's say you have fetch from 100 to 150. This record you have fetch. But, now you have commit the offset. Hey, so what offset in the group coordinator you are sending? That, hey, for this group, this topic, this partition, my offset is 150. You are saying that, hey, till 150 I'm done. But, still you haven't processed it. It just auto commit. If something crash will happen, and you will restart again, do poll again, in the from the group offset, what you will find? Okay, if till 150 are done, you have to start from 151. So, you lost some data. Okay? So, that's why in production, auto commit never used. That's just my experience. Okay? So, that is where auto commit, I believe, should be uh reside in the code. Again, this is a conceptual code. This is not something because framework code, if you go, it's too huge and too complicate. This is my understanding what uh Spring Boot might be doing internally. Okay? After that, auto commit done, there is like whatever the records you got, 50 records, it iterate over for loop. For each record, one by one, it run the business logic. Okay? After that, once it is done the s- complete batch, you can say that of the 50 batch, now let's say if auto commit is false, we have to manually do the commit sync. Okay? So, the for manual, there are two option, commit sync, commit async. Commit sync means block until broker confirm that, yes, it is properly written, consumer underscore offset properly updated. In commit async, it's fire and forget. I don't bother about the broker acknowledgement that whether it is able to commit offset properly or not. So, we have to use one of them. Okay, and continuously again while true, again it will do poll. So, it's continuously poll. Okay, and anytime any this loop breaks means your consumer is dead. It will leave the consumer group. Okay, and when it leave the consumer group, no heartbeat sent by consumer because there is a background thread also running by the consumer. So, your consumer you have a broker and let's say this is a group coordinator. So, this consumer there is a background thread which every sometime send the heartbeat. Hey, I am alive. I am alive. I am alive. Now, let's say when this consumer leave this group, you can say that it is dead or crashed something. It won't send this heartbeat. Okay, if it won't send the heartbeat, the group coordinator will say that okay, this consumer might have like crash or something, then the rebalance will start. We'll see that later. But for now, understand over three steps what we have done. Spring Boot does a lot of abstraction. Internally might be happening all of this thing. So, good thing is again, let's say even if you understand this framework, we don't have to write all of this. Okay, so here if you see the same code, all these properties is now written into application.properties. Okay, there are so many configurations. I will try to cover as many important configurations. Okay, I have started with this five important one which is very much required. Uh for other rest, default is present. Okay, but this you can say that this 1 2 4, 5. This five is must. Rest everything default is present. So, from this conceptual framework code, this property is you can say that we can we don't have to write this. If you put into application.properties, the framework automatically read this application.properties and create this map for us. So, this is handled. All we So, this is we have All we have to write is application.properties. Second, uh our conceptual framework code is like we have to create a new Kafka consumer object and this properties we need to feed. So, good thing is there is a framework class consumer factory. Okay? So, this is you can say that interface and this is an implementation. This is an implementation class. Okay? What it does is it task is to create an object of Kafka consumer. So, what it will do is that it will make use of your application.properties, it will convert it to this properties, and then it can create the new Kafka consumer object and feed this property map to it. Okay? And we don't have to write this. Already framework provide this. This class is already framework provide this. So, this classes has the capability to create an object of Kafka consumer. Done. This is also handled. Now, here if you see, consumer, which topic it need to listen to. Okay? Where we have to provide it? Into the Kafka listener. So, we have to provide a Kafka listener. This is we have to write. This is we have to provide. So, one we have to provide is application.properties, second is we have to provide is Kafka listener. So, in the Kafka listener, at the rate Kafka listener, topic equals to this. So, this is this piece of code we have to tell. Subscribe. This information come from this Kafka listener. Okay? Now, also if you receive that in the for loop, let's say 50 records come for this 50 record one by one, this business logic will run, right? This business logic is also this one. So, the Kafka listener is written on top of a method. So, whatever the method is nothing but your business logic. So, for each event one by one, your business logic means this method will get invoked. So, this is also handle this business logic. Now, here if you see the rest of the code, this framework code you can say that polling, auto commit, this for loop iteration, this manual commit and all, this all is present into Kafka listener container. Okay? And again, the framework provide this. We don't have to write. So, all we have to write is this application.properties and this Kafka listener. Only these two things. Rest is everything is provided. So, at this point of time, we know that, okay, even though we are writing only application.properties, Kafka listener, there are so many things framework is doing. Something is handled by consumer factory, something is handled by Kafka listener, and something is by listener, Kafka listener and all. But, what is the flow now? Okay? Let's again join some like connect the dots. Now, here I'm showing you the flow. Now, with this all the dots will get connected. Now, you start your Spring Boot application. So, when you start the Spring Boot application in the pom.xml, you have provided a spring-kafka. Right? So, auto configuration, Kafka auto configuration will start. It will get triggered. Okay? Based on the spring-kafka on the class path, this configuration will trigger. What it will do? It will create a bean, or you can say that object of consumer factory. First thing, it will create an bean of it. It will not create an object of consumer factory. It will create an object of consumer factory first. Because this is an interface, this is an implementation. So, ultimately, it will create an object of let's say default Kafka consumer factory. Because once you have a bean for this, then only you would be use it to create an object of Kafka consumer, right? So, first thing is you have to have a bean of this. So, first thing, when you start an application, based on the dependency, Kafka auto configuration will start, and it will create a bean of your consumer factory. That is done. Okay? The second is it will create a bean of concurrent Kafka listener container factory. If you see, there is something called Kafka listener container. Where I showed you it has all this code. All this try loop, the polling where it does, right? Uh auto commit, manual commit, for loop, okay? So, this all present inside into Kafka listener container. But you can say that it is like a factory of it. Concurrent Kafka listener container factory. So, a bean is created for this also, and this factory object is, you can say that, wrapped inside it. Okay? So, this holds this holds the reference of consumer factory. So, at the step one, when you start a Spring Boot application, object is created for consumer factory, and this object is is stored inside into concurrent Kafka listener container factory. So, its bean is also created. It's been is also created. Now, we have to add {at} {rate} enable Kafka. This in all your application. It is not mandatory. Even if you don't add it, a Spring Boot automatically adds it. If you are not using a Spring Boot, let's say, then you have to add in your application that {at} {rate} enable Kafka annotation. Because without this, it will not listen to this annotation {at} {rate} Kafka listener. Okay? So, if you see in our Kafka consumer application, I have not added. But, internally, internally, a Spring Boot might be adding it. But, we don't have to add it. A Spring Boot automatically add it for us. But, what happens after this is like when this is added, which a Spring Boot automatically adds, because we have a Spring Kafka dependency in palm, what it will do is it will create a bean of this Kafka listener annotation bean post processor. What this task is to is it is scan Kafka listeners. It is scanning this. It is scan this. Okay? Once it is scan this, now let's say it found one. For each Kafka listener, for each Kafka listener, it will ask concurrent Kafka listener container factory, "Hey, create an object of Kafka listener fact container bean. Create and this object. Create this object." Okay? So, [snorts] again, when this annotation is added, which is automatically added, a post processor, you can say that work is start. What it does it it scan your repo and look for Kafka listener annotation. Now, let's say it found two. So, what it will do is it will ask concurrent Kafka listener container factory, this one, the bean which is already created. It will ask, "Hey, I got two Kafka listener. Create two Kafka listener container object. Kafka listener container object one, Kafka listener container object two. Each for this Kafka listener. Okay? Now, here if you see, this Kafka listener container internally make create Kafka consumer object from the consumer factory. Okay? Because this object already has the reference of this consumer factory. And this consumer factory is ultimately used to create an object of Kafka consumer. Okay? So, now when you are creating an object of Kafka listener container, and Kafka listener container is like you can say that it's a template. While true, it do the polling, it do auto commit. Okay? Then it will have iterate over each record, and it invoke your business logic, everything. So, this is the main thing. So, when we are creating an object of it for each Kafka listener. So, now let's say currently I have this one Kafka listener only. So, one object would be created for Kafka listener container. So, what it will do is it will need a you can say that consumer object. So, it will make use of concurrent Kafka listener factory. What it will do is it already has this consumer factory object, right? It will create an object of this. So, means each Kafka listener container each Kafka listener container has one Kafka consumer. One Kafka consumer. So, in a Spring Boot, if you have two Kafka listener, two Kafka listener means you have two Kafka listener container, and two Kafka listener container means you have two consumer. Okay? Got it? So, means you have two consumer in a group. Which topic they might be listening that it is defined here in the Kafka listener itself. But, they belongs to one group. Okay? So, now here in the Kafka listener container, so you need a consumer object. Yes, it would be created by the concurrent one because it has the reference of consumer factory. Then this code logic is there, then business logic. Like which business logic it has to invoke? So, it has already read the Kafka listener, right? For each Kafka listener. So, this consumer will invoke this business logic. So, you have a second Kafka listener. Second Kafka listener means second object of Kafka listener container, and that will invoke its business logic. Okay? That's why each Kafka listener, again very important, in the Spring Boot, each Kafka listener, if you have 10 Kafka listener, 10 Kafka listener container will get created, and each Kafka listener creator has one consumer. Got it? The The flow is clear? Okay? So, it is scan the Kafka listener. Let's say it got one. What it will do is it will create a Kafka listener container out of it. And So it contain create the Kafka listener container, it now has all the information what business logic I have to add. Okay? Consumer it will create. It will create one consumer, which business I have to invoke. Every information it has, what topic I uh it it has to listen. It has everything. So container it would be able to create successfully. And after that you have poll loop start. It continuously iterate over in the while loop itself. Continuously while while.
