=== Setup of Kafka Consumer (505s - 1089s) ===

jumping into the the actual setup. The first thing is we have to do a dependency at dependency in our Spring Boot project. So, in the pom.xml, we just have to add a spring-kafka. The same thing which we have added for producer. Exactly the same thing. Okay? This bring all the dependency for the consumer, also. Step two. See, what is the minimal I am showing you the minimal configuration is required to set up. You will see that, "Hey, this is very, very easy. Setting up consumer is too easy." But, currently we are just touching the top of the iceberg. Okay? There are a lot of things happen behind. Okay? Which I will slowly go. Okay? But, first thing is understand what is the minimal thing is required to do a consumer setup. The first thing is setting up the dependency. Application property. This is the you can say that the most minimalistic important configuration which we have to add. Port number and the application name. This is just uh nothing related with the Kafka. This is just your application name and the port on which it is running. So, 1 2 3 4 5, this five configuration which you can say that very important. The first one is bootstrap server. Bootstrap server is why it is important? Because when the first fresh request you are making, you have to fetch the metadata information. And when you fetch the metadata information, like you need to at least invoke one broker because you don't know, you don't have metadata information yet. Okay? You haven't restored it. So, first time you have to invoke like producer. Similarly, you need some entry point. Okay? So, which broker? So, I have added here broker one, broker two. Okay? It will invoke any. This is just you can say that for the first time it will use it to fetch the metadata information. After that, it don't need it. Okay? So, clear? Bootstrap. Second is group ID. Which consumer group your whatever the consumer you are setting up, which consumer group it want to join. So, order {hyphen} consumer {hyphen} group. This group which my consumer wants to join. Okay? So, this is important. You have to provide which consumer group you have to join. Then we have key deserializer and value deserializer. If you remember from the producer setup, okay? When producer send an event, okay? It send key and value, but it never send uh, like this. It first serialize it. Okay? So, [snorts] in the consumer, when it read it, it has to deserialize it. This key and value. The same thing. And whatever the you have used for the let's say key is using uh, string serializer. Value you have used JSON serializer. The same thing you have to use here. Okay? So, let's say key deserializer I am using is a string deserializer. And the value deserializer I am using is let's say JSON deserializer because in the producer I have used a string as a string serializer and the value as JSON serializer. So, here JSON deserializer. So, clear? 1 2 3 4. Now, last one. Kafka consumer property is spring JSON value default type. So, why this is required? Whenever your value deserializer is JSON means what we are saying is the value which is a JSON we need to deserialize it into some Java object. But which one? Which one I have to which one like your consumer convert this JSON object. Okay? So, we have to provide one default type. Okay? So, spring.json.value.default.type is here I have created one POJO order. Okay? So, I have provided its class path com.eda.consumer.model.order. This one. This class. Okay? So, this is a default. Okay? I will tell you that I might not even we have to provide this for sure. Okay? But you can say that this is just a fallback. This is just a fallback. How? I will show you. Like why this this is this is just for a fallback. You can say that. At least uh you can say that consumer client should at least have one default. Okay, if I don't find uh like which this JSON I need to convert to an object, which one I will use this default. Now, you might ask that okay, apart from this, where else it will try to convert to a specific object, that next I'm going to tell you. But, this is the five minimalistic configuration. Bootstrap server, like we know that why it is required. Consumer group, like which consumer group this consumer need to join. The key deserializer value deserializer because the producer also serialize this key and value, so we just need to deserialize it. Since the value [snorts] deserializer is JSON, so it will convert from JSON to object, but which object uh we will I will show you next, but it need one default type also. JSON, so here we have provided that okay, if you don't find any way, this is the default user. Okay? And this is just POJO class I have created in this path. So, dependency added, the most minimalistic application.properties added. Now, step three, last step, and our consumer setup is done. Now, here I am adding in this at the rate component I have created order event listener. You can create any class name. This is just one class, and I put at the rate component. Now, here this is important. I have added one Kafka listener. Topic, the consumer which I am creating, it want to join this group, and it want to listen which topic? This topic, order-events. Okay? So, at the rate Kafka listener, this is the topic which my consumer wants to listen. Okay? Now, what any event any event which comes from this topic, this is the business logic which will execute. You can say that if there are 10 event for each event this get executed. This code this method get invoked. Now here if you see I have written this method public void consume. Now here this I have provided object Java object. So now that's why I was saying you when there is a JSON serializer Okay. Now what it will do is that let's say order hyphen events Okay from this one event come. Now for this JSON deserializer will come. Now JSON deserializer what it will do is it will see that okay this is the method which need to be executed. It will see that okay it is expecting this order. So it will try to use this. Okay. So this JSON deserializer in which object it will try to deserialize this one. This one order. But it's still we need to put default is like something let's say I have here provided payment object. So which object this JSON deserializer will try to convert to an object? Let's say this payment. I have provided payment. Okay. But this act as a just a fallback. Let's say it's not able to uh you have not provided anything here. Just assume. But at least it for its &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; you can say that something is mandatory in consumer client that at least I should know the default type. Okay. If I don't find any suitable uh in which object I have to convert to this JSON this is the default type I will use. So that's why it is always mandatory to provide a default type. Okay. So again check this one. So, I am writing I am writing one class order event listener and here I have annotated with at the rate Kafka listener. Which topic this Kafka will read? Okay? And for let's say if from this topic 10 events has come, for each event this method will get invoked. Okay? That's all. Your consumer setup is done. Uh on just three step. Dependency application.property, which is like very simple configuration. And like event. Now here, let's see a demo. I know that
