=== Demo (1089s - 1487s) ===

at this point of time so many doubts might be coming, but let's see a demo first. So, let's remove everything. Again, let's set up the cluster from a start. So, let me remove controller one controller two logs broker one logs broker two log I have cleaned everything. Now, we need to generate a new cluster ID. Okay, got a new cluster ID. Now, let's you know that what we have to do. We have to add controller one, controller two, broker one, broker two with this cluster ID. Controller two added. Now, we will add broker one to this cluster and broker two. So, all four things are now attached with one cluster ID. Now, all we have to do is start the server. Okay. So, now let's start over controller one here and here I will start controller two. So, now I have a started the controller one and controller two is also started. Now, we will start the broker. Now, let's start broker one and let's start broker two. So, now all servers are started. Our cluster is fully set up. Okay. And currently here we will see let's describe the consumer events topic. We will see there would be one describe uh describe. So, here if you see currently order hyphen event do not exist. Okay, that's expected. Now, what we are doing is the producer Kafka producer service, I am starting its server. From the producer topic, you know that we have already have during the startup it create this topic four partition two replicas. Okay. Now, I'm starting the producer. Okay. So, producer application is started. Now, let's again do describe order events. Okay. So, 0 1 2 3. So, four partition two replicas of each. That is done. Order uh our cluster is set up. Producer is up and running. Now, what I am doing is I am publishing one event. Okay. Now, let's say 3 3 2 7 0 0. This is the order ID which I am publishing. Okay. So, order created and event published. So, here order created successfully in partition three it has gone. So partition three. Who is the leader of partition three? It's leader three. Leader three is like uh uh Controller one is one, controller two I've given ID two, and broker one. Broker one, yes. Broker one ID is three. So we need to check the broker one. And uh partition three. Okay. Let's check that. And uh partition three leader is three. So broker one we have to check. Broker one. Okay, broker one. And partition three. Order hyphen events hyphen three 00 log. Yeah. So this is the record. 32700. 32700. Okay. Now, but here if you see currently our consumer is not up. So now I am So this is my consumer application, the same thing which I showed you. Like here application.properties 12345. The five minimalistic application.properties. Okay. And uh this is one listener. It is listening to order hyphen events topic. And I'm just printing. This is the business logic. Receive order event this one. So now let's start the consumer. I run it. So consumer is up and running. Here if you see that what exactly happened? It why it didn't consume this event? Why? It's because it's because the default Now here at this point of a step where it has asked Hey, give me the offset from where I have to read. So, currently in this application.properties, I haven't defined that. So, what's the default? When there is no offset, it's the latest. Okay? Whatever the latest is this, you will get that. All the previous one, earliest one, you won't get. Okay? So, now So, either one way is that we provide it like auto offset reset to from latest to earliest. Okay? If you do earliest, I will get everything. Okay? But now, let's say our consumer is running. Let me publish another event, 701. Now, this is the latest, this it will get. So, okay? Order created an event published. Now, let's see the consumer. Receive order event, 01. Why? Because by default, it by default offset is early latest. Okay? Not the earliest, means from start, nothing. So, our consumer setup is done. So, here you can keep on producing event. Let's say two. So, here you got two. Then you put here three. In consumer, you got three. Okay? So, this is the like minimalistic consumer setup. Dependency, this is the property, and which topic and the business logic. Done. Now, here if you see, hey, but you have
