=== Recap of Consumer Read workflow (0s - 505s) ===

said welcome back and today we are going to see how to do consumer setup. So see this looks very small topic like consumer setup, right? All we have to do is that. But when I will start you will see like how many subtopics we can have in this one. Okay? So let's start without any wasting time. So if you're already following this series in the Kafka architecture topic I have shown you the complete consumer read flow. Okay? So these are all the 13 step in which consumer flow works. Okay? So I will take just 5 minutes to quickly go through it. But if you have any doubt in this flow, I would highly recommend kindly check out the architecture topic in which I have gone through this in deep and slowly. Okay? But before we start or jump to the setup let's have a quick recap of this flow. So in a step one we setting up a consumer like which group it want to join and which topic it want to read. Okay? Step two is like okay, the group based on this group ID it compute the partition. You know that internally Kafka maintain {underscore} consumer {underscore} offsets topic which has 50 partition. Okay? Now let's say broker one, broker two, two brokers are there. So this topic 50 partition let's say one to 25 partition is hold by broker one and 26 to remaining 50 let's say hold by broker two. So for partition number one to partition number 25 broker one you can say that is the group coordinator. And for partition number 26 to 25 broker two is the leader and it is considered as a group coordinator. You can say that. Okay? So now in the step two I have like a This is a group I want to join, notification service. I do that hash of notification service group ID mod 50 because total 50 partition, I got 23. So, now let's say this 23 belongs to this broker one. Okay? 23 partition, who is the leader? Broker one. So, who is the group coordinator for this group uh consumer group notification service? Broker one is the group coordinator. Okay? So, step two is just to find out the partition. Where the like which broker is going to manage this group. Now, in the step three, what it does is it hit any broker, any broker, and find out the metadata information. Like metadata information about like first _consumer_offset partition zero, who is the leader? Leader, let's say broker one. Partition one, who is the leader? Let's say partition 50, who is the leader? Okay? Like this, it find out a metadata. Also topic like of Let's say order. Uh _events. This is the topic. It's partition zero, who is the leader? It's partition one, who is the leader? So, all this metadata information it fetch out. After that, what it will do is it will invoke the group coordinator. So, let's say this is the partition for this group, notification service. The partition is 23 out of 50. So, this 23 from this metadata consumer offset, it know this partition 23, who is the leader? Let's say broker one. So, this broker one is a group coordinator because this broker will ultimately manage this partition 23. Okay? So, now this consumer will ask this broker, or you can say that group coordinator, "Hey, add me into this group." Okay? Now, what this group coordinator will do, it will add the consumer and also it will do rebalance. Like it will divide the partition. Let's say in this notification group which this consumer want to join. There are already two two consumer, consumer one consumer two. Now, this consumer you want to add it newly. So, means now there are three consumer. So, this notification group, whatever the topic it want to join, let's say they want to join topic order underscore event. This is the topic it want to join. So, what it will do is it has this topic has three partition, partition zero, partition one and partition two. So, earlier this three partition is divided among these two. Let's say partition zero, partition one is handling by consumer one and consumer two was handling partition two. Now, when you're adding a new consumer, so rebalance has to be done. Let's say it is handling now partition zero, it is handling partition one, it is handling partition two. Okay? So, that's what it does. Because consumer tell, "Hey, this is a group I want to join. This is the topic I'm interested in." Okay? So, it find out the metadata. Now, from that metadata it knows that okay, for my group information goes to the partition 23, partition 23 leader is broker one. It invokes the broker one and ask that, "Hey, add me to this group and this is the topic I'm interested in." So, what group coordinator will do, it will add the consumer into this group and also do rebalance. Means assign a partition for this topic. Okay? Once it is done, this consumer will ask again the group coordinator, "Okay, the partition now let's say this Partition two you have assigned me. What is the offset is already processed from where I have to start. Okay? So, it will ask the group coordinator. Group coordinator will check underscore consumer underscore offset. It has the information that okay, notification group, this is the topic, this is the partition, what is the offset till work is done or it has been read successfully. So, it will find out and it will return the next offset which need to be processed. Once done, now consumer knows that okay, uh for this order underscore events, I have to taken care of partition let's say P2 and offset which I need to read is let's say 100. Uh till 100 is done, so I have to read from 101. So, now what it has to do is it has to invoke the leader of this topic and this partition. So, it will check its metadata. Okay? For order underscore event topic, for this let's say partition two, who is the leader? Broker. So, it find out and it woke it and it will ask that hey, from 101, return me this many bytes. Okay? It will return, it will process those. Okay? And after that process, it will commit the offset. Okay? It will update. It will ask the group coordinator hey, update this info that this group, notification let's say group, this topic, this partition, offset updated let's say till 150 I am done. Updated. Okay? Once done, it again continue polling here. Okay? Next, after give me another. Till whatever let's say 150 is done, it again I said now give me from to 200." Like this, it continuously go on. Okay? So, sorry if I am going little faster because the same thing I have discussed in the architecture. This is just a quick recap because &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; now we are going to set up and when we are doing the setup, everything is configuration. Okay? So, if you don't remember this flow, then the configuration is like, "Okay, why we are doing that?" Okay? So, now I am hoping that with this quick flow, you able to do a quick recap of the whole flow what consumer uh might be doing internally. Now, let's say a step one. We have
