=== Tumbling Windows (751s - 1989s) ===

Tumbling windows are fixed size and each record belongs to exactly one window. Let's say that our window size is 10 minute. So, what Kafka stream has is logically Okay, so it like 10 0 0 10. So, see 10 10 difference window it created. 0 0 to 10, 10 to 20, 20 to 30 like this. Now, let's say any record comes at 10:07. So, which window it will belongs to? It will belongs to this one. Okay? Exactly one window. So, below is the example of how data is actually stored in K table. That's again it's my understanding. So, here if you see now our K table is not simply just key. It's like key, window start, window end. And let's say the value is like whatever the aggregate you are using, let's say count or something. So, for each key you can have different windows. Then, let's say I have, let's say, 5 minutes window. In the tumbling window, I have a window size of 5 minutes. So, for this key, 10 to 10:05, 10:05 to 10:10, 10:10 to 10:15. Like this, you can have different windows. And like whatever the count in this one. Similarly, for key two also, you can have. One generally misconception is that like we have all the windows present even if there is no data, no record itself. So, let's say we have the key key-1 which arrives at this two time. So, how this data would be stored? Let's say key one. Now, the time window is 5 minutes. Okay? So, 10. So, it would be, you know that, 10 to 10:05. So, 10:02 falls into this. Okay? So, 10 to 10:05, one. Then, 10:13. So, 10:13 is within the range 10 10 to 10:15. So, 10:10 to 10:15 for this key is one. Okay? So, each record falls within one window. And now, here if you see that there is no record at, let's say, 10:05 to 10:10. There is no record, so there is no entry also. So, whenever there is a record, if entry if window is required, then only you will see. Unnecessary, it won't create all the windows Entry. Let's say with zero. Okay? And also one important thing is that window start time is inclusive and window end is exclusive. So, it's like this. So, you generally use case where we tumbling we can use is order per 5 minutes, revenue per hour, API request per minute. Then in those scenario, we can go with this tumbling. Now, very important that this two scenarios, if you understand that we would be able to answer most of the questions. One is this doubt itself. This doubt like does window remains open or not? Now, before I just read this out, let's first understand the grace period. All the situation without grace period and with grace period. So, this definition is clear, right? With this one. If it is not clear, things will get more clear with this one. Let's say without grace period. What's the scenario? So, just assume that we are saying that windows are getting created. Now, the one question comes into my mind is this windows remain open? Let's say currently it's 10:10. Now, let's say after 2 hours, 12. Does this window remain open? Now, let's say after 2 hours, if any event comes for let's say 10 for 13. Will this again get updated? Is this open window still open? It can like always be updated? So, answer lies with the grace period. So, in the without grace period, as soon as window is closed, as soon as you can say that window end time is crossed. And how you know that window end time is crossed is based on extreme time. Let's see with an example. You will understand more clear. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Let's say window size is 5 minutes. And this is the extreme of events, for example. The first record is coming at 10:31. All belongs to the same key, let's say. Same key is, let's say, order one. All belongs to the same key. The first event comes at 10:31, second 10:32, third 10:41, and another there is one 10:33, some late event is coming. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So, first, Okay. So, I told you about the extreme time. Extreme time is like till what time the record has been observed. So, since this is the first extreme time, it will update to 10:31 also. Okay? So, current time window open is because window size is 5 minutes, and 10:31 is coming, so the window is 10:32 to 10:35. So, these are you can say that logically 00 05 5 to 10 10 to 15, likewise. So, it knows that key is order one, window is start inclusive 10:30 10:35 window end, the count is one. Okay? So, this record is accepted. Simple. Second. Now, the record at 10:32 is coming. Stream time become 10:32. Okay, the same. So, current time window, it will also fall within this only, 10:30 to 10:35. So, it will just update the count, so it become two. This is also handled properly. Now, 10:41. See this. So, 10:41 record is coming 10:41. What would be the stream time? It would become 10:41. Okay. Now, here if you see the current window for the 10:41 would be 10:40 to 10:45. So, this record at this should fall into this range, this window. Okay. So, currently this window is not present, so it will create 10:40 to 10:45. It will create one. Also, notice that the previous window it is now closed. How it knows that? See, a stream time, the current time is now greater than your window end time. Okay, means the time is crossed. So, your window is closed. Got it? Because our 10:41 stream time stream time, that's where it is important. A stream time is now greater than your end window end time. So, if that is true your window is closed. Currently this is open. Why? Because window end time is currently you can say that a stream time has not crossed this window end time. So, that's why it is open. So, it is open for updates. Now, 10:33 event is coming. So, what is the stream time currently? 10:41. So, will it get updated? No, it won't get again to 10:33. A stream time always proceed forward forward. So, 10:33 falls into which range? It falls into 10 uh 30 to 10 35. So, it falls into 10:30 to 10:35. But, will it be able to update it? No. This window is already closed. Okay, this window is already closed. So, this would be discarded. Right? That's what we have seen here, but with this uh example. Now, let's say with grace period. So, grace period is like window is not closed suddenly. When it is closed? When a stream time is greater than window end time. This is what we have seen. Plus grace. Plus grace time also. Now, the formula become instead of this now formula become this. Plus grace time also. So, grace time is only useful is while deciding the closing. Can the window be closed or not? Okay, without grace time this is the only formula. But, after grace with grace the grace time is also added to your window end time and then it is decided. So, see this example. Again, the same example. So, here if you see the first is simple. 10:31 recorded at 10:31, the stream 10:31 added. 10:32 simple. 10:32 stream is 10:32 again fall into the same window. So, it got updated. So, here but at this point of 10 can you tell what is what So, till when this window will be open? Open till window end time is 10:35 plus what is the grace? 10 minutes. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So, this will be open till 10:45. Okay? &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So, third. Record at 10:41. Stream time 10:41. So, its window is 10:42 10:45. So, it will have this. But, will it close any window? No. So, the previous window is also open because end is 10:35. Stream is 10:41. It's crossed already. But, now it is not closed because grace period is added. 10:35 plus 10. So, 10:45. Till 10:45, it would be open. So, till it is not closed. Now, you are receiving at 10:33. So, which window it belongs to? 10:30 to 10:35. Is it is still open? Yes, till 10:45 it is open. So, it will update to three. Got it? Understood the concept of grace time and also the usage of stream time. Why it is very important. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; It helps in deciding when the window can be closed. Clear? The tumbling window is clear, right? The second is Uh yeah, before that uh just see the method definition. So, see this with this example. So, till now we have already seen that like once you have an order order dot let's say select key like how you want it to like if you want to change the key then you do group by key. We have already seen that. Now, we can also tell like how you want to group. Like you want to group windowed by. Windowed by time windows dot of size and grace. So, there are two flavor. One is without grace, another is with grace. Of size and grace, off-size with no grace. When you use this method, you only provide the size, window size. When you use this window size plus the grace period. So, this is window size is 5 minutes, the grace is 1 minute. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Rest everything is same, dot count. All we have just provided like I want this window. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Clear? So, but if you are using like this flavor, you can also have like if you remember during materialized we are using earlier key value store. But that is you can say that by default. And again, you don't have to write it. This is again an optional. You can just simply do materialized as. Since we have already provided this in the metadata, it will automatically know it has to use window store. So, but here if you see instead of key value now in the RocksDB over state store, earlier it was only key value. But now we are specifically saying that it's a window store. It's not now key value, it's a window. But again, we don't have to write this since we have already provided windowed by it will be added in the metadata. And when you do ultimately the count, it knows what type of state store it has to create. Only one thing you have to notice the return type. Earlier it was key table. Your key value. So, let's say string comma string. Now it is windowed string. So, it's not normal. So, this is actually your key, key type. So, my key is still a string only. But it is of windowed string. So, windowed So, this object if you see, you will have a key. Whatever the type it is coming. Let's say K. Okay? Whatever the type it is coming, so I'm sending the string. So, it would be a string. Key. Then it will also have duration. Start time, duration, end time. Got it? So, now you can say that just a wrapper. So, apart from key start and end. So, that's why I told you this is how actually it is record into the RocksDB. Key, start, and end. Let's start the producer. So, we have already have the setup. That is we have all done it multiple times. So, producer is a started. So, this is our stream. This is the K table. Now, here if you see windowed by off size and grace I am using. So, window size is 5 minutes. And here if you see, this is the grace. Now, here if you see return by windowed, so here if you see, whatever you are passing, that would become your key type. So, my key is still a string. But now it is wrapped inside this. And rest is window. Start millisecond, end millisecond. Okay? So, once you done this Now, after that you can have output. Like So, you can put the data into the output topic. So, currently I'm also printing it here. Peek. I'm doing peeking here and I'm just putting system.out.print ln. You don't have to do this. Okay? But, just for like in here console also we get printed like what's the key, start time, end time, and the count. I'm just printing it here also. But, all we have is like we can publish it to output topic. And here if you see produced with like key serializer or you can say that value serializer. So, value is our long. So, that serializer. And here if you see that key serializer. So, here if you see that uh we don't So, here if you see that uh we don't have just normal string. Key is not a normal string. It is windowed the string. Okay? So, that's why it has a specific serializer for it one. Window serializer deserializer. Time window starts from a string. So, internally it will decide like how it wanted uh like window size is 10. And it just record the start time. 10 0 0. It will automatically compute the end time. So, how it wanted to showcase this information. Because our key is now not just a string. It has uh key plus window start plus window end. Okay? So, that's why it's own serializer for the key. So, data, whatever we are getting, it would be published to the output topic. And from this output topic you can compute the reports. So, let's run this also. So, this is clear, right? Till now. Now, we will hit it. But, this is clear, right? Everything is same. All the difference is that we are just telling what type of window we want to use. So, currently we are using tumbling window. Okay? And we are just printing it here dot peak. So, that is not necessary. All we have to do is like publishing it to the topic. So, now we can hit it. Let's say one time. And another time. Two times we have hit. So, count should be two for that particular range. So, first let's see output output topic has got this record or not. So, the same. Ordered count topic partition zero. So, that's the name. What's the name of the ordered count topic? &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So, it has not seen. Let's say into broker one logs. So, we have two brokers, right? So, let's it's log also. Yeah. So, in broker one it has gone. So, here if you see, so currently it's in serializer form, that's why we are not able to see. But, here if you see key is there. O hyphen one. So, key is present. And the rest time that is like serialized form, that's why we are not able to see, but yeah, some record has gone into this output topic. But, we are also printing into our console, so this might have also come here. So, key is this. Is start is 0500. So, 5 minutes we have given the range, right? With window is what we have given. Window size we have given 5 minutes. So, 5:05. So, this is a start window, this is end window, count is two because two times we have hit. You got it? So, the same thing is the same thing has gone into this output topic. From this output topic you can say that the reports whichever is required that can be generated. Clear? The second is hopping window.
