=== Event Time, Record Timestamp and Stream Time (179s - 751s) ===

concepts. Many engineers get confused in this one. The first is event time. Second is record time stamp. And the third is a stream time. So event time is the one when the event actually happened in the real world. So when you have a payload within that, let's say you have created at. That's what actual event time is. It's not like when Kafka you are able to write into the Kafka or when Kafka received, when Kafka start processing it. No. When actually event happened in the real world. So within your payload order payload, when the order was actually created 10:01. That's what event time is. Record time stamp is like the producer. So there are two way. The producer assign the timestamp before sending the record to the you can say that a broker. Okay? So, we have a Kafka broker. So, Kafka producer send this event. Okay? So, before that it also assign the timestamp. So, that is also known as record timestamp. And we also have a way that if you don't want to use the producer assign timestamp, we can configure log append time. When the broker assign the timestamp when the record is appended to the log. So, one is like producer has published. So, producer has assigned one timestamp. If you don't want to use that, you want to have like when actually the event write into the log. Okay? So, that also we can use, but that is assigned by broker. That is assigned by broker. So, generally these two times, this or So, there are two types, right? Timestamp one is you're using default. Let's say default is whatever the timestamp producer is giving us. So, that will be used. If you don't want to use the time when producer publish the event, and you want it to use the time when the record is actually appended to the log, then you have to use you have to you can say that add into your application.properties. Hey, uh we want to use log append time. So, it will use this time when the record is actually appended to the log. So, that's why I put or. So, this is known as record timestamp. record timestamp is either Don't get confused. either event published time or event uh record event is appended to log. So, any time could be possible depending upon what approach we are using. This is default. And if you want this one, you have to just add a configuration log up and time. Then this will be used. But this is known as record time. So, now here if you see this is your payload, which has the event time actually happened. Outside of this, outside of this you can say that a value, or you can say that your record there is certain additional data data, you can say that metadata, timestamp. So, that is your actual record timestamp. And by default, during window this time is only used. So, now during window, we will discuss like a start time end time. So, you would be discussing here what time it is. Are we discussing event time, record timestamp, stream time? So, start time end time when we are saying, by default Kafka stream make use of this record timestamp. And the third is stream time. Stream time is the highest record timestamp observed so far. What does it mean? Now, let's say you have an events. 10 Another is at 10:10. Another is at 11:00. So, let's say multiple events are coming. It is possible that some late events are coming. So, even though at 11:00 you have already record an event. Okay, and but you also getting some late events, which happened on 10:30. Like this, multiple events can come. So, a stream time is highest record timestamp. So, it is always you can say that, increasing. So, when this event happen, stream time is 10. When 10:10, when an any particular order with let's say record time stamp, record time stamp is 10:10. So, it will increase the stream time 10:10. See, it is increasing. Then 11. Any record with record time stamp 11. So, here if you see, earlier it was 10:10, now I got 11, so it will also increase 11. Now, see this. Now, I received an order with the record time stamp 10:30. It will see that, "Hey, my stream time is already 11. I should not go back." So, it will not change your stream time. Stream time is 11 only. Now, when you get another order and its record time stamp is 11:40, it will say that, "Hey, my stream time is 11. Now, I got 11:40, so it will update itself." So, stream time is always increasing. So, you might be thinking, "What it is?" See, Kafka do not works on our like whatever the clock wall clock, you can say that. So, currently, let's say we have 10:30. So, it's not like Kafka also say that, "Hey, current time is 10:30." Kafka works on till when till or instead of till what time I have seen the records. So, it is totally depend upon the record. Till what time I have seen the records? So, till 11, it has seen the record. So, even though some late records are coming 10:30, it won't update itself. Okay? Till 11, it has seen. Now, one doubt might be coming at this point of time. I told you by default, Kafka stream window make use of this record time stamp. And this record timestamp is like two scenarios. Like one is producer assigned the timestamp. Or another is this broker assigned the timestamp when the record is appended to the log. Okay, depend. But for this we can say that a timestamp which is present outside this your actual record. Okay? So this is overall record. I would say that actual your order. You for example. So currently we are saying that by default window is using record timestamp, this timestamp. But what if I my business is to use this event time? Can I change it? This default. Yes, we can easily change that also. So there is already one interface provided by Kafka stream timestamp extractor. All we have to do is we have to implement that. Let's say I have implemented order timestamp extractor, this one, and provide an implementation for this method. Very simple method. Let's say you have a record. Okay? So from this record you just read this value. You this is your order. From this order read this created at. That's what I have done. So from this record read the value. Now this is my order. Order.getcreatedat. It's in millisecond. So now this time would be used. And in the application.properties I have just configured that which time extractor to use. So I told that use this order time extractor. That's all. So it is possible that we can control which timestamp event time or record timestamp which to use during window. Okay, you You use a stream time. It's just like between even time or record time is there. So, if you don't do this if you don't do this by default it will use this record time is there like whatever it is coming here. Outside of your value. Got it? So, this three time is clear and also this is stream time is very important. I will tell you how, but at this point of time keep this all three in mind. Okay? So, we have different types of windows. So, I will just cover three important types of windows which basically cover all type of reportings which we have to do. One is tumbling. Another is hopping. The third is session windows. There could be more, but I believe that these three covers most of the report reportings which we require. Let's first understand tumbling windows.
