=== Introduction (0s - 179s) ===

said welcome back, and today we are going to cover the last topic of Kafka stream, that is window. So, we all know that Kafka streams are infinite. Like there is no start, no end. New stream keeps on arriving. So, there is we can say no start, no end. So, what if our business requirement is to answer "How many orders we received in last 1 hour?" Will you be able to answer from the stream? Kafka stream, like events are keep on coming. No, we won't be able to answer. Okay? The max till now what we have done is go with the stateful processing. So, we have a stream of events, and we have used this count. Group by key, count. The max we can have is a K table, like which stores or maintain the state in RocksDB. We all we can have is like for this key, how many records you have seen so far? Okay? But, this will not help you answer how many orders received between, let's say, 10 to 11. No, we cannot answer that. So, that's where window comes into the picture. So, window is a time-based boundary used to group records from an infinite stream into finite chunks. So, consider this with an example. So, these are the events. And let's say now we are grouping based on the window. We will see what type different types of windows there. But now here if you see, for each key, now we have multiple grouping based on the time. Window start, let's say, 10 to 11, how many events you have seen? Same key, but between this time, 11 to 12, how many events you have seen? So, now if anyone ask how many orders received between 10 to 11, we can do a simply look up here key and the start and end and we can be able to answer that. So you know that RocksDB provide interactive queries. Okay? I will not be covering interactive queries because if we understand this interactive queries is like just understanding the syntax. That's all. So it's just like which RocksDB name you want to query. So every state store we can give a name. So provide the name which you want to query, the key and if it is a window, then you can also provide from and to. So it will provide you the data. That's all. So the major thing is to understand the things. Okay? So now let's go one level more deeper into the windows. So we have very three important time
