=== Complete Producer Write Flow (50s - 363s) ===

see this flow once. Okay. So step one, let me zoom it a bit. Producer creates event. So this is the publish message that hey topic which I want to publish. This is the key and this is the value which I want to store and acknowledge equals to all which will help in determining ISR. Okay. So now what will happen? So every step I want you to pause and see what will happen. We just like whatever we have seen till now we are just clubbing it together. So in step two what would happen? So producer uh producer have this uh event which it need to publish. What it will do? So producer request metadata first time or when it refresh its metadata because why it need metadata. See producer need to invoke the broker in a cluster there are many brokers. Which broker it need to invoke? It need to invoke the broker which has let's say particular partition leader. Okay. and how it determine which partition through key. Okay. So first thing is that it need to have certain metadata information and what this metadata information is that okay this topic this partition who is the who has the leader which broker has the leader okay now let's say in this example what it will do is producer will ask any broker hey give me the metadata information okay generally broker like I told you right controller pass the metadata information cluster metadata information to all the brokers so broker save it but many times it happen is that it got expired and all so if broker doesn't have it they pass the request to active controller active controller gives the metadata response to the broker and broker ultimately goes give the response to the producer hey this is the metadata detail so metadata detail has like okay for this topic this partition this broker is the leader for this partition this is the this broker is the leader okay now this metadata information is present with the producer step three it will calculate the partition so partition it will calculate that hash of this key modulo the number of partition within this topic so for now let's say that we have three three partition so what is the partition partition we got one partition number one. So who is the leader of the partition one? Broker two. So in step four okay what it will do is that it will find out that from this metadata I need to publish this event to this partition who is the leader. So it will find out broker two is the leader. Now what will what it will do is it will directly invoke the broker to okay and will ask it to write this event. So in step six broker to write event to its partition one log. So you know already right? So topic let's say order - events then you have partition one you wanted to write right? Partition one might have segment. In segment, it will write this new event. New event at offset 101. It write. Now when broker 2 has written it, it will check hey producer has used acknowledge all means it will check the ISR list and it will wait for all the replicas which are there to respond that they have successfully written also. So since acknowledge equals to all broker 2 will wait for all the ISR to update the events. So we have let's say ISR has broker one, broker two, broker three, broker two has the leader which has already returned. Now it will wait for broker one and broker three also which are followers. So once they do poll f the latest update and acknowledge it after return successfully. Okay, when all the ISR acknowledge that they have done then it will send the respond back to the producer that event is published successfully. write flow is clear. Now let's see consumer read flow.
