=== Why Kafka is so fast (1464s - 1720s) ===

And one doubt which definitely might have comes to your mind. Hey, Kafka is reading and writing from disk. Isn't disk read and writes are slow? How Kafka is so fast? So generally there are two ways it makes itself fast. One is at the time of write and one is at the time of read. So at the time of write it follow page cache optimization. Okay. So just say that Kafka trust OS caching strategy. Okay. To keep the caching effectively for the files. So now let's say leader particular leader broker is writing to a disk. What it will do is it will first store into a RAM OS page cache. In the operating system you might have read it OS page cache okay and asynchronally it flush the data to the disk okay so it don't directly write to the disk it first write into the RAM and asynchronously it write to the disk so no blocking disk weight and sequential while so whenever you are writing to a disk right you can say that it always happen in sequential In case of Kafka which is very very important and this is the best case for disk and why for Kafka sequential write happen because Kafka is append only I told you Kafka is append only no insertion in mid never modify old data never update record in place it only writes at end whenever any event new event come it create a new offset incremental let's say 32 write it offset 33 write it so always sequential Okay. So d keep moving forward. So always sequential write it support. So that's one way of optimization during write. Okay. So disk right happen in a synchronous manner. First it write to the RAM in the OS page cache. Now during read it follow zero copy optimization. So generally let's say if you are not following zero copy optimization what happen is let's say your file is present into disk and when you load it it first load into RAM OS page cache from there it loads into your application JVM user space and might there it goes to the network okay but Kafka make use of system call send file it do not even load into your user space So Kafka servers might be running. So let's say Kafka JVM space you can say it do not even load or copy the data to its user space. So it say that hey it directly make a system called send file. So from disk it goes to the OS page cache and directly goes to the network. No copies maintained in Kafka JVM. Okay. So it saves one hop during the read. So it not only uh save hop you can say that data copy time from this to user space not only save speed but also memory CPU cycles are also saved and got high throughput. So during read and write both Kafka perform certain optimization. Okay. So in next part I will show some failure scenarios and how it would be handled but I hope I am not rushing and going slowly and uh this flows now makes sense to pictureize end to end flow. What happened during when producer write the event? What happened when consumer read the event? Okay pause it go through it again things will start making sense and any doubt let me know we can discuss further. Bye.
