=== Complete Consumer Read Flow (363s - 1226s) ===

Okay, step one, consumer starts and want to join a particular group. Let's say I want to join a group ID notification service. Okay. Now what it will do is a step two find the partition number of topic. See everything is handled by broker the server Kafka server. Okay. Consumer and producer are just client. Now if any consumer want to join a group who will add server will add right but I told you if you remember okay uh for let's say you have a group consumer group let's say notification consumer group analytics okay and you have 50 partitions of consumer offset topic you have 50 partition we have already seen that. So this group information is handled by one of the partition out of this 50. Okay, because the formula was hash of group ID mod 50. So let's say you got partition 23. So partition 23 will handle all the requests for this group. So that's where I am finding out that okay which partition and why it has to find out a partition number because in case of cluster we have multiple brokers. Okay. So broker one, broker two, broker three, one of the broker host this partition as a leader. Partition 23 is a leader here and broker two. So this consumer need to invoke this broker. Right? So that's what it is doing. First it need to find out like what is the partition number which uh and then only it would be able to find out the specific broker which is hold the leader replica of the partition 23. So it will find out like hash of notification service group ID mod 50. Let's say I got 23. So partition 23 of topic this is what can handle you can say that uh handle this group details. Now in step three what would happen is consumer also need metadata information like how consumer will get to know that okay this broker holds this partition as leader and this is as followers. So it needs certain metadata the same as producer. So it will ask any broker hey return me the metadata. If broker doesn't have it it will ask controller. Controller will return the metadata response because see this is cluster information about topic about partition about broker. These are cluster information. That's why it is going to the controller. Okay. So which broker holds which topic and which partition as leader which partition as follower this is cluster information okay and that's why currently at this point of time consumer is interested in this cluster information that hey who holds this because it need to find out the leader for this partition. So first it is fetching the cluster metadata. So it ask any broker any broker will goes to the controller if it doesn't have then uh it goes to the controller controller returns the information and ultimately consumer get it. So consumer knows that okay for this topic consumer offset topic partition zero holds by broker one partition two leader is broker two and let's say partition 23 broker three contains the leader replica. Okay. Now in step four what it will do? It will invoke. See now you are interested in this 23 right. I told you that only leader replica can write and can read. Okay. So it can't just send to any broker. Let's say even broker 2 has the follower. Let's say follower of partition 23. But it can't invoke broker 2. It has partition 23 follower. Follower can't write. Okay. So that's why it need to goes to the leader broker. So now in the step four it invokes broker three and that generally broker no in case of consumer known as group coordinator. I told you that why it known as group coordinator because let's say if your group is this consumer group is notification it will always comes like same partition partition 23 because formula is like hash of group ID mod 50 okay and let's say one particular broker host this as a leader so this broker is known as group coordinator so always for this group request come to this broker only because this host the leader for this partition. Okay. So you can say that partition is just a way of distributing the load to uh multiple servers. So yes now broker 3 will got this request. Okay. And the request is that this consumer wants to join the notification service group. So what it will do, okay, in step five, broker 3, it will update its metadata. Okay, and you remember like for consumer the metadata information is like where it is stored. It is stored under consumer offset. All information regarding consumer is stored in this. See consumer related information is not cluster metadata. It never goes till controller. Okay. This consumer is part of this group. This consumer takes care of this partition. This is not cluster information. Okay. So all this information is stored within this topic itself. So that's what it does. Okay. So it what it this group coordinator will do is it will update its consumer metadata. You can say that and it will say that okay let's say consumer 3 is the new consumer which it wanted to add. So what it will do is it will add into this group. Okay, for this group, this topic, hey this consumer, you take care of partition two. It will assign one partition to it. Okay, so broker 3 waits because in producer you know that whenever the broker writes it will check acknowledge equals to all or acknowledge equals to zero or acknowledge equals to 1. It will wait for replicas within ISR. But in when the consumer does that there is nothing like acknowledge equals to all or it pass it do not pass anything. Consumer do not pass anything. So what happen is by default for consumer it act as an all. Okay. So what it happen is it will wait all the rep like you can say that all the brokers which hold this partition 23 replica it will wait for it so that they also update this information that okay in this group I am adding this new consumer and this consumer will take care of the partition two of this topic. So this information will get stored into the leader which is a group coordinator. Okay. And also all the followers of the partition 23. So once that is done like consumer is added to the group the next step is see consumer let's say consumer three it is assigned partition two. Now it need to know okay what is the last fetch offset for this one. It is possible that some previous consumer was there it got crashed and this consumer got the responsibility. So we need to find out that one right. What is the last offset for the partition two has been processed. So again it will goes to where? It will goes to the group coordinator only. Okay. And who is the group coordinator? You can find out like okay u the same formula it will use hash of group ID mod 50. You will get partition 23. From the metadata it will see that okay partition 23 is hold by broker 3. So broker 3 is ultimately get the call. So for one group always request goes to you can say that one broker you can say that one. So that's why they are known as group coordinator. Now this group coordinator what it will do is it will look at the consumer offset. Okay. And internally it will check for the key that hey this is the group ID. Okay. This is the group ID. This is the topic. This is the partition. Okay. And it find the value the last offset read and it will return it. Now what would happen is now it got that okay from 101 I need to start. Now next step what it will do is that it will invoke the leader broker. So now see it is interested in topic order events partition two. Okay, because this is this is the partition it has been assigned to is right partition two for the order events and it need to know that it need to fetch from 101. Now from this metadata in this metadata it also have information about this topic this topic this partition who is the leader let's say leader is broker two in this case broker two hosts the leader replica of this partition two. So it will call broker 2 directly and it will say that hey fetch me from 101 and return me 200 bytes. Okay we can configure this at a time consumer how many data how many record it want to pull based on memory it want to record 200 byt in a one shot. So what this broker will do which is the leader of this partition two of order event it will return the offset in sequential way from 101 let's say till 501 becomes 200 bytes. So it will return this many events. Now what it will do is it will start processing those. Now once it process it need to commit also. Okay. So what it will do is that let's say I am following manual approach and batch like after this all one batch is completed then only I'm doing commit. So once I processed all what I am doing is again I need to go to coordinator because all consumer related information is stored in consumer offset. Okay. And uh this consumer offset has multiple partition again and one of the partition it has to store this because partition is just a way to distribute the load among brokers. So once it has to do the commit what it will do is that it knows that okay for this uh group notification group my partition is 23. From this metadata it know that broker 3 is the leader which host partition 23 of consumer offset. Okay. So it will reach to the broker three which act as a group coordinator for this group notification group and it will write into its consumer offset partition 23. Okay, consumer offset partition 23 it will add into it segment file let's say okay that it process till 5001 and once it is done the consumer continue do the polling so one thing you get to know that consumer in Kafka consumers are poll based not pushbased so Kafka is not pushbased it's was poll this consumer keep on polling and it will goes to the step eight again that it will again ask the order events to fetch me another 200 bytes start from let's say 501 okay and once it is uh start from 502 because 501 is already done so from 502 give me another 200 bytes from offset 502 give me another 200 bytes and just keep on flowing. So consumer read flow is also clear like here we have seen the end to end flow what consumer will do.
