=== Log Compaction Strategies (1226s - 1464s) ===

Okay. Now one thing is log compaction strategy. So we know that Kafka is keep on appending the event into its file. So when it deleted or when it uh what's the strategy to remove it or something? So there are two policy one is delete which is default. So it deletes the old segment based on time or size. We can define both. So in configuration I can do this cleanup policy is delete which I want to go. Retention is let's say 7 days I want to give. So you can give in millisecond that this is the retention time and you can also give the bytes 1 GB I want to have the maximum size. So what would be the behavior? Let's say you know that everything is stored within a segments. So it's this rules applies on segments you can say partition segment. So when a particular segments is created let's say 8 days ago it would get deleted because the maximum retention time you have given 7 days. So it always works on segments. Okay. Let's say if any segment is just created 6 days ago, it would be kept. It won't get deleted. Similarly, the size based like uh you have defined 1 GB. So now let's say that segment one is 1 GB, segment 2 is 200 GB. Total is 1.2GB. So it is greater than 1 GB. Okay. Uh for a particular partition, what would happen is it will delete the old segment. So it will delete the older segment. 1 GB it will delete it. Okay. So it remember always this works on segment level of a partition. Another policy is compact and again it is an async job. It do not happen in a synchronous manner. The compact. So compact is like you can do cleanup. Policy equals to compact. Now understand this. Let's say in a segment. So whenever we publish an event okay so you know that we have let's say topic and key okay and the JSON record so the key is something if you have provided the key then this compact can be an h for so generally let's say in the segment record is like hey offset 100 the key is your let's Say user one and the record is your let's say version one next event comes offset is 101 user two which is a key here and the record is let's say whatever the JSON let's say version one like this you have so what happen is there is a you can say that a background job which keep on running on this segments and try to do a compaction what compaction means is keep the latest value of a particular key. So now let's say key is user one. So user one has yes one two times. So it will keep the latest value 102. User 1 v2 the older one get removed. Similarly user two does it has duplicate? Yes. User two it will keep the latest one 101 only 104 version two. User three has only one entry. So that will cap. So it compacted. So it again happen at segment level. For each segment it does happen in unsynchronous. Do not block rightes. Okay. And yes since it is happening as synchronous immediate cleanup doesn't happen. Okay. So that is done. Now one more very important question.
