=== KTable FAQ (1315s - 2187s) ===

Now couple of doubts might have come. The one thing is you might be asking hey what's the point of storing the event latest state in RocksDB? When the KTable also send each event forward to the stream pipeline like KStream. So in KStream let's say we have event one event two event three all belongs to same order order one order two order one order one order one all belongs to same order ID. So in the KTable also we read the event one by one. So when event one comes it passes through the complete topology like KStream. And only difference is it maintain into the RocksDB that hey order one current status is certain S1. So when event two comes it again passes to the same topology like KStream but only thing is it updates the RocksDB that for order one now status has changed let's say S2. So now the question is like what's the point for each event we are running the complete topology like KStream what's the point of maintaining this information? See there are two major advantages of maintaining this RocksDB. The first, when some other operation in the stream pipeline need to look up. What are those operations? Let's say. Let's say understand this without KTable. You are not to using KTable. So, order topic, customer topic. You are you have to read two topics. Your source is two. Your source is two topics. Order and customer topic. So, at time T1, customer records arrive. SJ value is Delhi, let's say. At time T2, customer record arrives. SJ value is Bangalore. See, the same customer SJ earlier was Delhi. And another event, same customer SJ, another is like Bangalore. It arrives. Because it is a stream, right? So, it does not maintain any history. The event comes and it process through the topology and ultimately it goes to the sink. Now, at time T3, order arrives. Order data comes from here. SJ and the product it purchased, let's say laptop. Now, one thing you have to do is that you have to do join with the customer record that we also know the city of this user SJ. What's the city? But, will you be able to know now? Because earlier we get the record that hey, SJ Delhi, SJ Bangalore. But, we are using KStream. KStream do not maintain any history of the record which it is processing. So, it has gone. So, now, when you want to join with the customer record, you don't know what exactly the city of this SJ. So, your join will not even work. You You have to populate the city of this SJ. Will you able to do that? No. There is nothing to look up. So, with KTable, it can be helpful. So, let's say order is our KStream and the customer is KTable. So, now at time T1, when customer records arrive, okay, so it process it, but it also maintains a RocksDB. SJ Delhi. At time T2, when customer records arrive, it will process it how it want to process it, but it also maintains the RocksDB. Current status SJ is Bangalore now. Okay, Delhi is updated to Bangalore. Now, at time T3, when order arrives, it will say that, "Okay, I want to join with the customer record." So, it can join this RocksDB. Let's say it's RocksDB is like customer {underscore} record. This is the file name. So, it can join with this RocksDB. Okay, and it find out that, "Hey, for this SJ, what is the city?" It can find out that Bangalore. So, that is one advantage of using KTable. Another advantage is interactive queries. We can expose REST API endpoints and when that REST endpoint is exposed, internally, it can query the RocksDB and find out the latest updated value of the key. We'll see that when we will see go into more deeper into RocksDB, we'll see that. But, that's another advantage. We can expose REST API endpoint that query this local state store and return the current state without querying the external database. So, there are certain advantages of maintaining this RocksDB also. Now, another doubt you might have come. Hey Shreyash, the example which we have taken above, this understand this example and see you able to get this doubt or or at this point of time. Pause this video here. Think what all doubts you can get. Okay? So, this is the doubt I think this question has come to me. I'm pretty much sure uh many of you have also get this question. So, let's try to find an answer. The example which we have taken above order KStream customer KTable. Does KTable partition event is given priority over KStream? Because order event need to do join with customer data stored in RocksDB. So, what if order event comes before customer RocksDB state is created? So, my doubt is, let's say now you are reading two source order and customer. But this is as KStream, this is KTable. I'm reading this topic as part as using KTable and reading the order topic as using KStream. And now I am doing join. Whenever I get an event from the order, I join with the customer records. So, the question is that, hey, first priority is given to KTable, right? Okay, read all the events of the customer, maintain a proper RocksDB, so that when the order event comes, you have the data to join. See, it is not like that. So, when you do a fresh start okay, or let's say application is already running. Events comes in parallel. Events arrives in parallel. Process record by record in the order they arrive. It's not like give priority to the customer because it's using KTable, give priority to the KStream because give priority to the order because it's using KStream. No. It's run in parallel and order by order. Let's say first this, then this, then this, then this. Okay? So, no priority is given to anyone. No priority given to KTable or KStream. If an order arrive before its customer, then join gets null. It won't get any data. That's how it is. Yeah, only in case of rebalancing, that is a exceptional case that when let's say your application itself goes down and earlier you were reading let's say partition zero of order topic. Now it has been assigned to some other topic or some other application. Now you know that it will first create its Rocks DB internal. From where? From changelog. That's I already showed you in the architecture part. Okay? So, it will recreate this Rocks DB from the changelog. That is something different. That is restoration or rebalance. Where first Rocks Rocks DB is let's say get updated from the changelog. But it doesn't mean that the priority is given to KTable or KStream. Okay? You got it? So, no priority is given to anyone. Data arrives in parallel. If order arrives before and customer data hasn't come, it get null. Another doubt. The join scenario which we have taken in above example. So, my order topic I have taken KStream. Customer topic I have taken KTable. Now suppose that the our use case is for each order even we need to join with customer. Okay? Let's say SJ laptop. And our KTable has maintained a Rocks DB which has let's say SJ belongs to Delhi, some RJ belongs to Bangalore, Some KJ J belongs to like some other city, Jaipur. Okay? Now, for whenever any order event comes, it need to find out that okay, for this SJ, what is the city? And it will update this order event with the city. That's what we have to do. Now, the doubt is because say customer topic has two partition. Okay? Let's say we have two threads. You know that from the architecture video, each thread maintains their own RocksDB file. Okay? Each maintain Each thread holds a task and each task maintain their own RocksDB file. Okay? Now, let's say customer has two partition. This customer data has two partition. Now, partition P0 goes in the task one. And the partition P1 goes to the task two. So, now let's say this is the use case. In my thread one, okay, let's say this is my application in which I have put thread equals to two, two threads. So, all the task will get divided into these two threads. So, thread one, thread two. Now, let's say two task. Task one is taking care of order partition zero, customer partition zero. Task two is taking care of order partition one, and customer partition one. Very important part is here if you see, the customer data is divided into two partition because it has two partition, and those two partition are in two different threads. So, they will both maintain their own RocksDB file. Because they are using KTable, right? So, it will maintain their RocksDB file. So, it is possible that here you have got a in the order, you got a record of SJ, {comma} laptop. But, the K table of the customer which has this information is this task two. In the partition one, I have earlier SJ. Let's say Bangalore. So, you can only do join with your local RocksDB file, right? Will you be able to do that? No. Because order comes here in the task one that hey, order key is SJ. Now, I want to know that its city, but its city is present into customer partition one, which is hold in a RocksDB file of task two. Okay, and two different tasks cannot access their RocksDB file. Okay? So, this is a very possible scenario which can happen. And generally, you can say that uh the K stream and K table work seamlessly only when we have co-partitioning. So, what does co-partitioning means? Co-partitioning mean the number of partition in both order topic and consumer topics are same. Okay? So, order has two partitions, P0, P1. The consumer topic also have two partitions, P0 and P1. First thing. The second thing is the key should be same. So, here in the order, the key is let's say consumer ID. SJ, let's say. So, here also, while distributing the event, the key of the event should be same, SJ. So that they always the let's say any event with key SJ goes to the partition zero. Similarly here, the key with the SJ will go to the partition P0 of a consumer only. In that scenario, this issue will not come. That's called It's called co-partitioning. Number of partition in both order topic and consumer topic are same and the partition strategy like key is same for both order and consumer. Like same key they need to use. So, that's what I have explained now. So, now what With this, what would happen is So, let's say in the partition P0, I have got this SJ-laptop. Okay, SJ-phone. These events are going on. So, in whichever topic whichever partition this will go for the order, let's say P0 it goes. Now, for the consumer, let's say the key is same. The key is same. Whatever the key is here, let's say SJ, here also key is let's say SJ. Okay. So, for the consumer also, it will go into P0 only. Okay. So, that whenever any event SJ {comma} laptop, so where it try to do a join with the customer data, so this SJ customer data would also be present into P0 only. That's called co-partitioning. Same number of partition both the topics, same number of you can say that partition strategy. Then only you can say that the KStream KTable joining is possible. Otherwise, a problem will come and that will get resolved through global KTable. I will tell you now. But that is clear? KStream KTable is clear? Okay. Now, understand this global K-table.
