=== GlobalKTable (2187s - 2933s) ===

Global K-table is like I have told you the problem you got the problem with the K-table, right? The same thing I have explained here. But now let's take instead of consumer take countries example. Imagine in Kafka stream application we have two stream thread and we have order topic with two partition, countries topic with two partition. Same thing. So you have two threads. Okay? So one thread has task one, another thread is another task. And this task is taking care of order partition P0, this task is taking care of order partition P1. Similarly it is taking care of country partition P0, country partition P1. The exact same thing which I have told you that it is possible that task one, this task one get countries Okay? It will see some countries. Let's say here it will maintain its RocksDB it has let's say country code IN and its value India. And here it has maintain its RocksDB, it has let's say US United States. It is maintain its own RocksDB file, country code and the country name. Now it has to do join. Let's say here in the order I have got for US. Will it be able to find into its RocksDB? No, because US is present into here. That's what I told you. Many times co-partition is not possible. You can't have the two different topics following the same partitioning strategy. It's very difficult. So this is very likely that here you want to do join with the table or you join with the topic, different topic, but those topics has different partitioning strategy. So this use case might come and your join will fail. Like you got an order which has a country code US, you wanted a complete name. But if you you can only do a join off with your store, you can get you get no value here US. The country code here it is in partition P1 of the countries here in the task two. So, what to do that? Global KTable comes into the picture. Now, understand that what happened is each Kafka stream application gets all partitions this data of the global KTable topic. What does it mean? Let's say that I have a Kafka stream application. Okay, the same Spring Boot application which we have created. This is a Kafka stream application only. And here we have defined stream thread equals to two. So, here we have two thread, thread one, thread two. Okay. Now, order is our KStream. Order is our KStream. Okay, multiple thread, each thread is their own task and each task is taking care of one partition of a order. Now, what about country? Countries topic which has two partition. P0 and P1. We know that this issue. Okay, the partitioning strategy of order and the country is not same. So, we can't use KTable. How to do that? So, this country topic we will read it as global KTable. Now, what we will do it will have this application, my this application. It will create another thread, global stream thread. What this will this thread will do, it will create a RocksDB file only and read all the partition of this topic. So, for this countries topic you have written that hey, read this topic. Now, since it is global K table, it read all the partition. Okay? And also, this global RocksDB file is accessed by your all task in different threads present into same application. So, you can say that each Kafka stream application, so each, very important, each Kafka stream application. So, this is my application which has two thread and this two thread can have multiple task. All can access this global RocksDB file, which is maintained as part of global global K table. So, if you have another application, application two, it has its own two threads. So, it will again read all the partition of the global topic, which you have seen. So, country, I have read it as global K table. So, all P0 P1, both the topics of the countries would be read and stored into the RocksDB. And now, this application, whatever how many threads it's running with this thread, how many tasks tasks are running, they would be able to read it. So, that is clear. All tasks running within this application instance can query this shared global state store. So, very important, always use global K store for relatively small or reference database, like countries, country code, configuration, which are static and small. Because you are reading all the topics, all the partition of the topic. Okay? So, your data set should be small. And also, each application instance, your each application instance does this. So, your data set should be small. So, don't use global K table for any any topic. okay? And also, very important that when you start the application, this is done first. So, you have this priority number one. So, first it read P0 P1 of the topic which you marked as read as a global KTable. So, it maintain this global RockDB file first. After that, it will start your KStream threads and your task will run. Okay? So, that's what I mentioned, it's read first behavior. Only for global KTable, not for regular KTable. I've already told you regular KTable is no priority over KStream or something. It read one by one, but only global KTable is like it first create this global first and only after that it will start your stream thread. So, okay? So, here if you see how you can do that, very simple. The same stream builder, builder.globalTable. Now, you can use this method, globalTable and the topic name which you want to read. Again, the topic you have to read, so you have to provide the deserialization, so we are using serdes. Uh serdes, your key and value. Okay? Deserialize key as a string, deserialize key a value as a string. And global table also maintains a RocksDB file. Okay, very similar to KTable only, but only thing it's global. So, you have we can do materialized as whatever the name of the RocksDB file you want to give and the key and value. Because now we are going to insert, so it's like a serialization. So, key serialization is a string, value serialization as a string. Okay? So, this is how we can do that. So, here if you see, KTable also. Now, let's uncomment out this global KTable. Okay. So, let's run this. Okay. I think it we need to return it. So, Okay. So, our application is started. Now, let's see. Here, if you see this global has come. Okay. So, this global has come, RocksDB countries-store. That's what we did there. So, here if you see what we're storing countries-store. And very important one more thing is that if you see this, if I do hyphen-hyphen list, there is no like country-store-changelog. See. For this KTable, this is also a This is also a your RocksDB file. RocksDB file. But, this is global. But, for this change log is not created. You can ask like, "Hey, why change log is not created?" I told you that whenever you start an application, whenever you start an application, it read all the partition all the partition and rebuild this RocksDB file. So, that is one thing. First, it has to read all the partition and rebuild it. Another thing is it is global KTable is only meant for a small relatively small data set like countries, country code configuration which are generally static. Not change so frequently. So, there is no you can say that from theoretically we are saying that use global KTable for only small data set and when it is a small data set and you have to read all the partition of that that should be fine. That's why don't maintain a change log. So, the original So, this is my original uh topic. So, your countries is the original topic, right? This is where you are reading. So, this countries has related two partition. P0 P1 countries. So, your RocksDB global your global your countries has two partition P0 P1 and now the your global RocksDB has all the data from this P0 and P1. All the data from this P0 P1. And there is no change log. in Kafka cluster. So, why we are saying that first of all this is global? So, whenever any application start, it first create this. Means it will read this countries topic all partition and rebuild this. So, in the change log happen in the change log also it will happen the same thing. It will read even by even all and then it will rebuild it. So, it will the same thing. Because all topics are present. All it has to read all topics. If it is only one topic, then it makes sense. Okay, change log for only let's say this partition P0. It will have It has to build only partition P0. Okay, but since it has to do all partition, doesn't make sense to create a change log. This original topic is something you have to read it again. Another thing is uh It is meant for the small data set itself. So, it's okay to read the whole partition P0, partition one, partition two again. Okay, all the partition. It's okay to read it because it contains small data set. Clear? I hope with this part of the Kafka stream, we are clear with the source like when to use KStream, when to use KTable, when to use global KTable. In the next part, I will tell you about this search, serializer, deserializer. Okay, guys, any doubt? Let me know in the comment section. Bye.
