=== KTable and Demo (696s - 1315s) ===

important part is that it is very similar to KStream, but it also maintains the state. Now, how it's does that? KTable represent latest state of each key. Latest state of each key. It stores the topic in RocksDB and continuously update the value associated with each key. Understand with an example. Let in this example, the same the previous one. Uh I have three events all with the same order ID 001 001 001. Now, what would happen when we use KTable? When we use KTable, again very similar to KStream only, it read the event one by one. So, we have source. When source process forward this to processor, you can say that notes. There can be like a pipeline complete of the processor node. Filter, then you might be doing some map. Like there multiple steps we can add. And after that, there could be a sink. So, very similar to KStream, it will read one event, pass it to the processor node. Processor node pass it to the sink. Second time it got second event it got, it again pass it to the processor. Processor part it uh forward it to sink. Very similar to KStream. KStream also does that for each event. But how KTable is different that at source also, it maintains you can say that RocksDB. RocksDB is nothing but a file in your local disk. Now, in that one it maintain the state also that hey, 001 when the record comes, it was status is created. The second event come, it also update this RocksDB. 001 now the status changed to shipped. Now the third event come, it also change the status to 001. Status is now to delivered. So, two things. Don't mix it up. Each event it again process independently. So, event come created, source read it, pass it to the processor, processor will do whatever, again it put to the sink. When the event two come, event three come, it goes to the complete topology only. But only thing is during source it also maintains a RocksDB where it keeps the latest continuously update the value associated with the key. That's the only distinction you can say that. So, here the same thing I have explained. All three events belongs to one order ID. So, what would happen is KTable read event one by one. So, read offset zero, 001 created. What it will do, it update the RockDB. Earlier it was created. Forward the event to the stream pipeline. Second time, it read offset one, ship. So, it update the RocksDB. Now it's shipped. And it will forward it to the stream pipeline. Third time it read an event, delivered. So, now it is now delivered. Update the RockDB, yeah, and forward to the stream pipeline. So, this is how it does. So, very similar. A stream builder, this is my another method for KTable demo. A stream builder. So, now here if you see, we can use it like builder.table your topic name from where you have to read it. Consume with your key deserializer and the value deserializer. Don't worry about it. I'll tell you in depth, but at this point of time you need to know that as part of KTable also we are reading the event from the topic. So when we are reading it we have to convert the bytes to a certain Java object. So we need to tell how you want to deserialize it. So we have to tell for both key and the value. So currently treated as a string. Materialized. Why materialized we have to use? We whenever the data has to be stored into the Rocks DB, we generally use materialized through which we can tell the name of the store DB file. Order hyphen event hyphen store is the name of the Rocks DB file for this one. And again, in the Rocks DB also data is stored in bytes form. I told you if you remember from the architecture Rocks DB is nothing but a file, key value file. You can say that key value file which has like your key value but is stored in your local disk. So again, it is stored the data in the bytes form. So the key need to be converted, value need to be converted from your object to the bytes. So that's it. So the key from a string it will convert to the bytes, value from a string it will convert to the bytes ultimately. So at this point of time all you have to understand that with the K table we also maintains a Rocks DB. Okay? And whenever you have to read something from topic, you need to do deserialization. Whenever you're writing to a topic, you need serialization. You have to convert it to a bytes and then you are able to write it. Similarly from Rocks DB. Rocks DB also stored the data in bytes form. So whenever you have to read it, you have to deserialize it. Whenever you have to write it, you have to serialize it first. Sorry. That's what we are doing it. So builder.table, this is a topic from where we have to read. And this serdes, s e r d e s, is nothing but a object which combine both serializer and deserializer. Internally, based on the consume with method, it make use of deserializer. So, key would be treated as a string, value would be treated as a string. Materialized, now for our RocksDB. So, as this would be the file name for our RocksDB. And with key serdes, with value serdes, like treated as a string string. Okay, from a string string it will now convert to the bytes. And then it will write to the RocksDB. Okay? And here, if you see, this while we are giving the file name, right? order-events-store. You might be thinking, what is this? A string, {comma} string, {comma} key value store. So, this first is like nothing but like uh your key value. The key is a string, value is a string. Okay, that that's why we are using the key uh serializer deserializer as a string, value serializer deserializer as a string. So, treat key as a string, value as a string. And RocksDB has not only one flavor like key value, it has multiple flavor. Another flavor is like window, which I will cover as a separate part. Like when we have uh questions like in last 5 minutes, find out the total number of orders. Last 10 minutes, what is the total number of orders? That's where this window feature comes into the picture. So, that's why I have specifically mentioned here key value store we want to use. The this RocksDB is key value store. There is another called like window store. Okay? But for now, we are not using that, we are just simply using as a key value store. So, this is clear. Very simple. Very similar to KStream, but only thing is, apart from reading from the topic, we are also storing it into the RocksDB file. That's all. And this is nothing but the same. Our processor, we are picking it, we are writing it. Print system.out.println. And the two is nothing but we are dumping into this topic. Okay? So, let's see it. So, now here let me comment out the Kstream. This is the Ktable demo. The same code I have shown here. Okay? Now let me stop the Kstream demo application. And start it again. The same I think issue will come. Let me have it here. So, application started. Let me publish an event. I published an event. So, let's see K producer application. Event is sent successfully. Now in the Kstream demo application, here just a sec. See. I'm just checking the topics, right? So, now here if you see order analytics. What is this? This is our stream demo application, right? Order hyphen analytics. This is our application name. Order hyphen events hyphen store. This is the name which we have given for our RocksDB file. Okay? And hyphen change log. I told you from the if you remember from the architecture view, architecture topic, that for each RocksDB file a change log topic is created into our you can say that Kafka cluster. Okay, so you know that RocksDB file has been created and we can also double check it. Kafka stream order analytics Now here if you see RocksDB order hyphen events hyphen store. Okay? So RocksDB file has been created with the name which we have mentioned and for this change log topic is also created in our Kafka cluster. So means it's working fine the expected way.
