=== KStream and Demo (90s - 696s) ===

So, first is KStream. Each record read from source topic partition is treated as an independent event. This is very important in the sense that let's say I have three events in my topic. Kafka cluster we have a topic, right? And let's say that a particular partition has these three events. Now, here if you see these three events are all belongs to same order. 001 order ID 001 001, but the status is changed. Created, shipped, and delivered. So, that's where I have written here. Notice that all three events belongs to one order ID 001. Now, the S part of KStream source, KStream do not maintain any knowledge of the event, okay, which it previous previously processed. So, each event is kind of a new event. So, KStream sees the them as three separate events and forward each event to the stream pipeline. See, in very simple word, for the KStream, even though they are all part of one order ID only, it do not care. KStream considered each event as a separate independent event. Okay? So, use KStream when each record matter. Okay? And very important thing is KStream do not maintain any knowledge that, "Okay, first time you got created, and second time I got shipped." So, it knows that, "Okay, yeah, 001 I have already got it before." No, it do not knows that information. Because here each record matters, and it treat each record as an independent event. It do not have any history maintained. So, see this example, how you can write it. So, we have a configuration class, let's say source types topology. You can give any name, okay? Now, we are writing one bean, okay? Now, here if you see, a stream builder. This stream builder helps to create topology. Okay? And generally, we don't have to create an object of it. The framework automatically inject it our bean method. Okay? So, if you remember when we write in our application at the rate enable Kafka stream, in the setup video I have shown shown that part. At the rate enable Kafka stream. So, when we have added into our application the framework automatically inject the bean of a stream builder through which we can create a topology. Okay? So, now we have I have written one bean. You can give any name, KS stream demo. Stream builder. So, framework automatically inject the bean here in this method. Now, this is how we can write a or you can we can create a KS stream. So, using this object builder .stream the topic name {comma} and now the serializer and deserializer what we wanted, the key and value. So, key I want to treat it as a string. Value also treated as a string. You know that in Kafka topic everything is stored as bytes. But, when you are reading it in Java, you want to convert this bytes to certain Java object. Okay? So, how you want to interpret this bytes? So, we have to tell. So, keys treated as a string. Value treated as a string. In the next part, I will show you a dedicated video on this serializer deserializer because it should be clear properly. But, at this point of time everything we have to focus on that what is KS stream? So, KS stream is like I am writing builder.stream, the topic from which you want to read and the key serializer and so we are reading, right? So, at the time of reading we need deserialization. Okay? So, SCRDS SerDes, you can say that it is a combination of both. It's an object which has both serializer and deserializer. Okay? So, here it will internally make use of deserialization during consume with. It make use of deserialization. So, key deserializer and value deserializer. So, this ultimately we get a KStream object. Now, .stream method is used to create KStream. Parameter it takes is source topic. I told you that we can read from more than one topic, so you can do like this builder.stream and list of event topic one, topic two, you can have more topic. And consume with like your key deserializer and the value deserializer. Don't worry about this S E R D S Serdes, right? Uh I will cover it in the next part in totally in depth. But, at this point of time you will just need to know that in Kafka we stored as a byte, but when you're consuming it, you are reading it, you need to know how to interpret the key, how to interpret the value. So, treat it is key as a string, treat value as a string. And this rest part, don't worry about this because these are processor and the sync part which we haven't seen at today, we are focusing on the source. Okay? So, how we need to read how to read from the source topic. So, this is the part of it. builder.stream the topic from which you want to read and the serializer deserializer. Okay? So, we can check that. So, here I have already started the my producer, my producer is already running. And you can see that here, let me zoom it a bit. Currently, the topics which are present is only countries and order hyphen events. Only two topics currently present. No data. I just started as a fresh. Now, here in the stream demo, let me see if I have a proper zoom 150. So, I think it should be properly visible. So, this is the case stream example. So, let me uncomment it out this bean. The rest all are commented, right? Yeah. The same thing. So, here if you see, builder dot stream order hyphen events consume with uh your deserializer. I provided key deserializer and the value deserializer. I want to treat it as a string. This is just a processor. I don't want to focus on processor and the sink I as of today because I don't want to complicate the things. But here, just understand that whatever the event will come in the processor, I'm just printing it. Peak. So, I'm just printing it out the key and the value. And in the sink, I am putting or publishing into this topic order hyphen events hyphen output. And produced with because now we have, let's say, a string object. We have ultimately, when we have to publish into the Kafka, we have to put it into a bytes form. So, produced with So, I just need to tell that the key currently is in a string form. Value is in a string form. And when it produce, it will convert it to bytes and put it into the topic. So, now let me start the stream application also. So, there is certain error. Must not be declared void. Change the method return type to its annotation. Okay, let's see that. What's that? Return orders. And here Cool. Application is started. See, don't worry about this. All we have to focus first on source. Once we understand the KStream, KTable, global KTable, when we come to the processor, right? With the processor, I will also cover sync part itself. Then we have the complete picture. So, at this point of time, don't worry about this like what is happening in the processor, what is happening in the sync. Uh why return is mandatory? At this point of time, all we have to understand what are the different ways to read from the topic. So, now our stream demo application is started. Now, let me publish one event. So, order one, customer one product ID one, let's say quantity 600. Something I'm let's say publishing. Order created event published. So, this is my producer. Order event sent successfully. My stream demo, here if you see, I got this. Event is consumed. So, it printed this. Now, here if you see, if I do again list Now, here if you see this topic has been added. So, this is nothing but our sync. We are publishing the output into this topic. So, in simple term, KStream is clear. Each event is you can say that uh evaluated independently. Okay? Now, another is KTable. The very
