Hey, Shaan this side. Welcome to Concept and Coding. And in the previous video, we have already seen the JPA architecture and its life cycle and how to set up. In this video, I'll tell you a very important first level caching. But if you have not seen the previous video, I would highly recommend it because it's totally dependent on it. In case, if you missed it, I will just briefly explain the life cycle. I will not again tell it in depth, just one use case because without this, first level caching would be like incomplete if you have not watched the previous video and directly jumping here. So, just to maintain a context, uh let me take 2 minutes to quickly uh revise the life cycle of it. So, here, just with the very simple one example, I will show you this. Let's say that I am creating user entity a equals to new user entity. This is my one uh user entity created. I am creating a transaction, okay? And I'm doing begin. I am doing entity manager . persist a, this object. Then I am saying that, "Okay, I want to remove it. Entity manager.remove a." Then again, I change my mind. Hey, entity manager . persist. Okay? And then I say that, "Commit." Finish. So, what would happen as per the life cycle of this? So, whenever you are creating a new entity, it is currently in the new state. Okay? So, when you created a transaction and calls the entity manager.persist means you want to insert into DB. You are not directly dealing with the DB. So, entity manager is provided API and its API is provided by hibernate session.impl. In that, first it will goes to persistence context. So, this is your persistence context. It will manage this entity. So, currently A is over here. Okay, it's not there into the DB even though you have called persist, remember. Now, let's say that you have called remove. Hey, I want to remove it, delete it. So, it will goes to a new state called remove. So, again, it is inside a persistence context but estate of the entity has been changed. Now, A is present here. Its estate has been changed to remove. But, again, it's not there into the DB. Remove means whenever the data is flushed it will get removed from the DB. From your perceptive, you have first inserted and then you are removing it. But, actual DB is not yet comes into the picture because everything is currently happening in the persistence context. Now, you said that no, no, I want it again and I want to persist it. So, it will again goes back to the persistent estate. Now, A is here. So, you know that your entity estate entity estate or you can say that life cycle is current from new to manage to remove or you can even detach it. Okay, you can do whatever. But, once you do commit, means you are flushing it to the DB. You are syncing it with the DB. If it is managed then you are flushing it, it goes there and insert it. If it is already there, A is already there, and it is in removed state, now you do flush, it will remove it. Then it is actually removed from the DB. So, till commit means commit is the time when actual flush happen. So, till flush happens, everything is handled in memory. That's handled through persistence context. And that's what helps in the first level caching. So, now let's see one example. So, very very basic example which in the previous video we have created. So, I have created one test JPA interface API. There I have created a user. Okay? Now, I am trying to save it into DB. I am calling the user service API. And after inserting, I am doing a select query. So, this is my expectation. First, I am inserting, and and then I am fetching. So, during insert, I am calling user detail service save. And internally, it is dealing with user repository. User detail repository is just an interface which I have written which extend JPA repository. That's all. So, this is very very basic which we have already seen. Now, if I start an application, now I am starting an application, you will see that the first it drops and create a table because we are using in-memory DB. Okay? Now, I am creating hitting this API, test JPA. So, what is the expectation before I hit? Expectation is first it will insert, then it will make one select query. Let's hit it. So, here if you say that we are able to see the data. Now, we are able to see one insert. Yes, but where is the select query? Why there is no select query is there? But how come I am able to fetch the data. It's because of cache. Okay, so what is happening inside? How the first level caching works? So, let's see what is happening. So, when this API is invoked, when this API is invoked, what it is doing is it is first calling what it is doing is it is first calling save user. Okay? So, when the save user is happening, so it is calling this JPA repository save user. Okay, so internally you know that, right? What would happen? So, inside a save user, internally it's using an entity manager calling persist. Okay? Internally it is calling entity manager {dot} persist. Now, if you remember, I told you that whenever entity manager persist was there, so this is nothing but a method interface. Session IMPL is the one Hibernate provided an implementation for this persist. And when the persist is happen, we are creating a persistence context. Okay? And this persistence context, whatever the object entity you want to create, it first hold it. Okay? So, you never interact directly with DB. If you understand this lifecycle, you will get to know that DB only comes into the picture when we do commit, when we do flush. Till then, everything is there, the state of the entity is there by the persistence context only. So, we can say that one entity manager equals to one persistence context. If you have two entity manager, it will have another persistence context. So, one-to-one mapping. And this second persistence context is totally isolated from one another. There is no interaction. If any data is present here, this data is not visible to us. Okay? So, now in this what happening is when you are doing doing save user, internally it is calling entity manager.persist. So, means it is able to find an entity manager first. It is able to find an entity manager object. So, means entity manager is there. And it when it is doing persist, internally it first create a persistence context. And it stores the data. This entity user detail this is stored there. Okay, so let's see that. So, here it calls save user. So, internally it calls this and the control comes to this save. Right? This is what simple JPA repository, right? We are calling JPA repository itself. User service and user service is calling JPA repository. So, it will comes here. Now, here it is calling entity manager.persist. So, you know that it will go into the session.impl and from that session it will create a persistence context. So, now here if you see, it is adding the entity. So, it will put in in the map. It will put if it is absent. What? This key. What is the key? This user which you're trying to insert. This one. This user which you're trying to save. So, it will create a key and it insert into the map. And the object is your complete object. Okay, now data is present here. Now data is present here. From earlier you created a new object, you call persist. Now data is present here. Save is annotated with at the rate transactional. Means, if you remember from the transactional video, there is a transactional interceptor which do begin and commit. So, means commit has happened. So, at this time flush would have happened. So, it would have inserted make one insert query. Also. So, data is there into this uh persistence and it has flushed into the DB also. Now DB is in sync. Now you are doing get query. So, one insert query is done. One insert query is done. Now you are doing get user. Again, when you are doing a get user, okay, by primary key, what happens? Let's see that. When we are doing get user or let's say that find by ID. One one ID I'm trying to fetch, right? So, internally what it does? Again, entity manager. So, currently it is trying able to find the same entity manager object. Okay, so this is also working with the same entity manager which is this is working. When this the same entity manager is you are working with, means the same persistence context it is aware of and if that persistence context has that data, it will not even go to DB. So, when the get user happen, so what would happen is when you call find by ID, get user, internally it call find by ID and find by ID, you know that session IMPL and session IMPL internally calls persistence context and their get entity. So, whatever the key map we have created, it try to fetch the key. Now here, since it is the same entity manager, we are using the same entity manager, same persistence context is used, and that's why it is able to fetch the data. So, no select query, no select query is hit. It returned from the cache. Now you can ask me a question that Hey Sean, how the same entity manager is used? I'll show you. In the dispatch If you go little deep in the you will al- already get to know if you go inside dispatcher servlet, you know that dispatcher servlet is the first controller. So, in the dispatcher servlet, there is something called apply pre-handle. Before it actually invokes the controller, there is a pre-handle. And this pre-handle here, if you see, whatever the during application is start up, in the previous video we have seen, right? It creates an entity manager factory. It fetches that factory and creates the entity manager. So, for each HTTP request, one entity manager is created by default. Remember that, right? So, I have created one HTTP request. Now if you see, now when I call the first like test JPA. When I call this API, one HTTP request means one entity manager and one persistence context. Okay? Now whenever I do DB query, save, get, right? So, the same entity manager is used, means same persistence context. So, whatever the data is is present into the persistence context, it will return me. Okay? Now here, if you see, I have created one more API, read JPA. It is doing direct get user, this same only. It is trying to fetch. If I call new API {slash} read {hyphen} JPA, new API means new HTTP request I'm hitting. I'm hitting new API, right? New HTTP request. New HTTP request means second entity means new entity manager it will create. And new entity manager means new persistence context. And it do not know about the data which is present into another persistence context. So, it will make a select query, fresh select query here. It will make a fresh select query here. Let's see this one, okay? So, in the entity controller, I have two APIs, one test JPA. This has save user and find by ID. And then I have read JPA. There I have two select query, two times. Just two time find. Okay? And also, let me put a debugger point in stateful persistence manager at entity state. So, I am starting a debugger point. So, when I started the application, you know that fresh table is started because we are using H2 database in memory. Now, I'm first calling test JPA. I am hitting it. So, see, I am trying to do first save. Because test JPA, what is the functionality? We are first inserting and then query. So, first inserting. It goes inside save. Okay? So, entity manager. So, it goes to entity manager.process. So, now see, if you are doing process, what would happen is it will first try to insert this entity into the persistence context map, cache, you can say that. So, this is my entity, this is the key. So, it is inserting into this. After that, it has committed it because he save is transaction, so committed happen. Okay, so means insert query might have happened. Now, it is trying to do controller is trying to do the get query. So, now it is doing find by ID. So, here if you see, will it go to DB? First, it will check the persistence context that, "Hey, is data is present into the entities by key?" See, this is a map. The key is there. And what is the key it's trying to look? Yes, the same. So, it has the data and it will return it. Now, if you see the console, insert query happened, but there is no select query. Because same persistence manager is used because it is created at the one HTTP request. Now, see, application is still running. Data might be present into the DB yet. Like uh if we connect the DB, application is running, data is there. Now, if I am running another read {hyphen}jpa. So, in read{hyphen}jpa, what is happening? Two times. Two times find by ID is happening. Now, I told you whenever a new request, so I'm going to hit this, so new HTTP request, new entity manager. New entity manager doesn't know about the previous entity manager persistence context. It will create its own. So, for the first time, it will has to go to the DB, fetch this data from the DB. But and then it will put into its persistence context. And the second time the select query it would be a cache hit. So only one time select query we should be able to see. So let's hit it. So I am calling find by ID. Okay. So first I am hitting get entity. Will it be able to get the entity? Here if you see, null. No. It will goes to the DB. Found find the data, insert it. It will adding it. Now second time it is hitting. Will it be able to find it? Yes, it able to find. Holder is there. Second time there is no hit. Now if you see the console, only one select query. Sometimes we get difficulty in understanding this. I have shown you by running this itself. So we can also run this by using our own creating own entity manager. So you can also try using this. So in the service class I am creating a entity manager factory, auto wired it. Object is created at the time of application itself. I am just auto wiring it. Same object would be used. So now I am creating first session. In Hibernate terms I will say that session is created. Means I am creating entity manager object through factory. After that I started the transaction. I am doing persist and two times fetch. So means three DB queries. Okay. And then I am printing it and then I am committing the transaction here. I am doing flushing here and then closing the entity. So this session is closed here. So now if you see that what happening is when you are running this code first session is created means entity manager knows about the DB like from this entity manager factory it knows how to interact with the DB. So, it will entity manager would be created. Purchase user. So, this user would be inserted first. So, what if it is a fresh user? So, first insert So, first persistence context would be created. Insert this user, let's say hashtag one. Key would be created and the value So, one and then it make an insert query. Okay? Insert query would be made during this commit flush. Okay? Now, after that a find come. So, it is using the same entity manager, right? Now, it is easy to visualize. Same entity manager it's using. So, when it do find means same persistence context, currently data is not there into the DB because I we have not done the flush. Okay? So, it's there only in the persistence context. Now, I'm doing find. So, find will it be able to find? Yes. So, no DB query is required. Again, I am doing will it require again DB query? No. Same entity manager, same persistence context, able to find it. So, no. After that, I am printing it and doing committing. Now, during this commit it do the flush. So, means now insert query will go. And this user is also go entry goes here into the DB. Now, the second time I am doing another entity manager. Second entity manager is created. Second entity manager means new persistence context. I am creating a transaction, committing it here. So, now I am first trying to find. Find the one. Does this entity manager knows about this persistence context? Let's say that even though I am not closing this entity manager. It's open, let's say. But will this know about this persistence context? No, this is separate entity manager. It knows about its persistent context only. So, it will try to hit a query. Okay, it don't know about it. So, when it do find it find it no, then it goes to the DB. DB already has that data user one. So, it will bring it and add it here. Okay. So, one time select query happen at this time. After that it will do again find. Second time find comes. Now it will goes to persistence context. Now it find yes. Now it does it need to go to the DB? No, it is already found the data. So, it return it. Data is found, then I do commit. So, there is nothing to flush. It's only get query. And then it will close it. So, one insert, one select query happen. So, now here if you see application is start up. So, one insert at this time. And one select query at this time. So, I hope you able to clarify how it is working. Okay. And I already told you very important, it's very easy to remember entity manager is created at an HTTP request. Because even though we are calling uh repository, JPA repository, like save query internally it only goes ahead and find out the entity manager. We always find confusion. Hey, does it pick one entity manager, different entity manager? Will it be able to cache it or not? I always easy to remember that dispatcher servlet is the one which create a entity manager at the time of every HTTP request. So, this is known as first level caching. Okay, where two entity manager, one entity manager have their own persistence context and they both are independent to each other and isolated. Okay, any call from individual entity manager persistence context help in doing the managing the caching from this. There is no knowledge of inter persistence context. That's where second level caching comes into the picture. We will see it later. Okay, guys. Thank you. If you have any question, we can discuss in the comment section. Thank you. Bye.
