Hey guys, Sean this side. Welcome to Concept and Coding. And let's just start without wasting any time. So, till now we have already seen about JPQL. Now, let's see about native query. So, what is native query? Native query is nothing but a plain SQL queries. Directly interact with database. Thus, if in future DB changes, code changes also required. Means that since now you are writing a queries which are DB dependent, right? Direct plain SQL queries we are writing. So, in future, let's say you are changing from MySQL to another DB, definitely you have to change the queries, too. No caching. Now, we are not using JPA functionality. We are directly writing plain queries. So, no caching like persistent context which you were using like. And also no life cycle management of an entity happen. So, these are some of the you can say that points which has to be considered. Now, the question might comes to your mind then, "Hey, then why to use over JPQL itself?" So, there are certain requirements like you have to write more complex queries which in like JSONB. Like there are like a JSON column, right? In your table. And you have to query that. Today, JPQL do not support it. You can access it through native query. Even though you know that in the JPQL, everything is related with entity. Okay? Whatever the columns entity has, you can have either full entity, let's say user or user.field1, user.field2. But you cannot expect a result which is not there in an entity like count asterisk. You have to fetch it. Can you do with the JPQL? No, you can't do it. Or let's say that even if you have to write a join in which two entities are not related. Let's say entity one, entity two. They do not have any relation one to one, one to many, many to anything. So, with the JPQL, which is dependent on entity, like join is generally complicate. Okay? So, with native query, it's like how you support normally. Okay? Like you can directly do joining between unrelated entities also. That is also possible. Query efficiency in bulk operation. In JPQL, what happened is it entities are managed, right? By JPA, its life cycle is also managed, and also the cache is also updated. So, it has to keep persistence context updated, which is your caching, you can say that. L1 caching, right? So, it's little slower than the native, which directly works on the DB. So, native queries are little faster. So, depending upon which use case you fall, you have to go for either JPQL or native query. But, these are, you can say that, certain of the advantage and disadvantages of a native query. How you can write a native query? Very, very simple. You might have seen how we were writing a query of the JPQL at the rate query annotation, right? Value equals to write a plain SQL query. Just also add native query equals to true. Okay? So, now JPA understand that this is it has to consider it on a plain SQL query. Okay? Everything else is same, like how what we see in the JPQL. The same method way, like whatever the param you have to provide, it's like this same only, same like JPQL, no different. Only thing is just provide native query equals to true, and now you can use like a plain query. One thing, just see here that select asterisk from This is now not my entity. Not my entity, Java entity user detail. It is is actually table name. User this is my table name. Where this is the field is now actually my DB field name. Okay, maybe in the entity I have something name, but in DB I am saying it is as a user_name. So, in the native query all the things when you are writing a query, just write from the DB perspective. Okay, that's the only one point which you have to consider. So, now one question might have come to our mind by looking at this query. Okay, like the same JPQL, I have written this method and I have written above the query. When I have written select asterisk, how it knows that this asterisk should be like return type of user detail? Okay, because in JPQL we might have written you which like all the entity and it knows that it is an entity, so it will automatically mapped it. So, when all the fields like asterisk is used, okay? So, internally does the mapping between DB column name and entity field name. Right? So, whenever asterisk in the native query asterisk is used, right? So, whatever the from you are using, right? In this user detail repository, it will ultimately do a mapping. Right? Field by field. Okay, so uh you will get all the data, but what happened when you return the partial field? So, here if you see, now I'm returning partial fields. Select username and phone, only two fields. From user details where name equals to like this native query equals to true. Now, how it will do the mapping to this? Because we know that whenever we are using an asterisk, like it will do a mapping with this user detail itself. But, what about this? What if I use this only two fields? Will the JPA will do mapping? No. If you start try to test it, you will get an exception. Column user ID not found. It will not be able to map. Okay? In case you have only particular fields to be returned from the native query, you have to expec- explicitly take care of doing the mapping. Okay? So, that is one extra task is involved. Now, how we can do the mapping? There are two ways. One way is using the SQL result set mapping annotation, which is used with at the rate name native query annotation. They both are used together. And the second way we I will it's an object array that we will see. So, let's see the first one. Very easy. Nothing much. Now, let's say that I have created one DTO. All the specific fields which I'm expecting in the user query which is going to run, I have written it here. I have a constructor which is accepting the fields and getter setter for this one. Okay? So, I I I'm expecting only username and phone. That's all. Only these two fields I've written in the DTO. Okay? Now, in your entity class, in your entity user detail entity class, we have to first write native named named native query. We have already seen, right? Named query in JPQL, right? Uh so, there is something called named native query. Okay? So, first thing is name. Just provide any name, whatever you want to give. Provide a name to your query. Second is that write a proper query. Plain SQL. Select only two fields, one and two. Whatever the fields you are expecting, write a proper plain query. Okay? That is the in the query field. The third one is result set mapping. Whatever the result is coming, username and phone, it is getting mapped to what? So, now here the second thing part comes into the picture. SQL result set mapping. So, whatever the field output is coming from the above query, we have to now do a mapping and for that we are using SQL result set mapping. Its name is I have given user DTO mapping and the same name is used here in the above one. So, now what happened is here if you see what ultimately I am doing here is I told that hey, whatever the result you are getting, username and phone, pass it to the user DTO constructor and pass it in this sequence. The username first, second parameter is phone. My first parameter is username, second is phone. Okay, in this sequence it pass. So, what internally it will do is whatever the query which you are running and the result which you are getting, okay, then it will invoke this mapping which is annotated with SQL result set mapping. Okay, and here with this syntax, okay, constructor result, which target class? User DTO class. So, it will create an object of this. Okay, and the value it will pass is this one, username and phone. First parameter would be username and phone. So, this is how we are mapping it. And this named native query and result set mapping SQL result set mapping is always used above an entity. Above let's say I've used our user detail. So, now in the user repository, you don't have to write like above @query and the full query name. We can do simply @query and the name. Whatever the query name you have to run like we have already seen previously in the named query. So, I given this name, run this query. And I've told that it's a native query to true, so expect it to be a native named native query. Expect it to be a named native query. Okay, so I've just given a name. Then this query will run. It will do a internally mapping, and this mapping would be used where it will create an object of user DTO, and whatever the field it is coming, it will pass like this. So, this is first way of doing a mapping when you are not returning asterisk, all the fields. The second way is manual mapping. Manual mapping in the sense is that I am writing the same like SQL query before. Write our native query equals to true, so like a plain SQL query, I'm returning username and phone. Now here, if you see, I am not returning user details. I am returning object array. So, list of object array. So, list of object array. List of object array. In the object array, it's of two size. First is username {comma} phone. Then second also is username {comma} phone, username {comma} phone. Like this, it will come. So, in the service class, when you are invoking the repository this method, you are getting a output as list of object array. You have to do map mapping. So, here I am doing a mapping. So, I'm using a stream. Okay. Uh if you don't know about the stream, at the top I'm sharing the Java uh stream where I've already explained it properly. So, check it if you don't know it. But, this is simple, right? All the result which I'm getting, iterate over it. Okay, now I'm mapping it. I'm creating an object of user DTO. First one I am passing as a name, and second one I'm passing to the this constructor second parameter like this. And I am collecting into a list. Okay, ultimately I'm result uh sending the list of user DTO. Because I'm creating an object of user DTO. So, this is the way of manual mapping through object array if you don't want to use SQL result set mapping. But if you have a scenario where you can directly use asterisk, then you don't need all this. You can directly return the entity. JPA will automatically take care of mapping the DB column names to a entity field name. Okay? Now, there is one more advantage of native queries dynamic native query. In the JPQL, there is nothing like a dynamic JPQL. Okay, we will see that. There is a different name. There is no like dynamic JPQL. There is a different name criteria API. But there is something called dynamic native query. How it's used? In the dynamic native query, now repository is not into the picture. Okay, in the service class itself, we are using entity manager now. Okay, now let's say that you have a scenario that okay, in my where clause, I have to dynamically put the conditions. Like let's say if user is passing name, then only I have to put a name condition. Name, let's say equals to whatever user is passing. If user is not passing name into the parameter, I don't want to add this also. So, I don't want to fix my query that where condition one, condition two, condition three. Okay, might be I have in some cases I have only condition two and three. In some cases only condition two. Only in some cases all three. So, dynamically you have to manage your query. How you can do that? So, here in this one, in the service class, let's say you have this method. Okay, and let's say whatever you are the input fields are coming into the parameter method parameter. So, it's a normal string builder. So, first I'm creating a normal string builder. Okay, so here if you see new string builder, I have written a plain SQL query. I'm just appending from user details, like DB query only. I I'm also doing joining. I've also appending where one equals to one. This is just a dummy because I can add dynamically more query. Let's say if zero is added, at least I have where clause present. So, one equals to one is why you might be thinking why I'm doing this. Let's say that if I'm not doing this, then you have to be like, "Okay, condition one I have to add." Then you have to put like first where. Okay, with condition one. Then condition Let's say condition one is false. It's not even like name is not there. So, the condition one I don't have to add. Then you have to always take care that okay, where is properly set or not. Okay? And if let's say that no condition is matched, then okay, where should not even come. So, with all this complexity, this help us, like we where one equals to one, right? It will automatically save us from this one. So, yeah. So, where one equals to one. Now, all we have to do is if any more condition added, so we just do either and or or, whatever we wanted. Or if no condition added, then also our query is perfect. Okay, so one thing is added. Now, dynamically adding the condition. So, one thing is let's say that I'm passing a username just for demo purpose. Username not equals to null and username is not empty. Means I want to put the condition. So, I'm putting appending the query builder. It's a string, right? So, I'm just adding and username equals to question mark. Okay? So, this question mark later has to be filled up. Okay? So, what would be the So, that's why I'm creating a list of parameters. List of parameter will store into a sequence. So, for each question mark in the list of parameter, I am restoring that what uh it has to be filled with. So, parameter.add username, whatever the username it is coming into this one. Okay. Now, let's say you have uh like this if else, you have multiple if else, so multiple question mark and multiple value you have to add into that. You have added into this parameter. You have done that. After that, what you have to do is we have to use an entity manager. Create native query, and you pass the stringbuilder.toString. What it will do is it will give us a query object. Now, at this point of time, your string builder this get converted to this query object. Which will look like this. Okay? Here, uh still question mark is not yet replaced with this your actual values. Now, you have the query. Now, what is the second thing we have to do is execute it. Okay. So, before execution, we have to now fill this question mark. So, generally, what it does is in this I'm iterating over the list of this parameters. Okay? I'm iterating over this each question mark. Right? Native query.setParameter. Okay? Now, what it will do is it will start Let's say you have three. In your query, you have three question marks. So, it's start with like one, two, three position like this. So, for each question mark, because uh for loop is started with zero, because in the list, whatever the parameter is starting from zero, right? But, this question mark internally, it is JPA concept from like one, two, three. Okay? So, for each question mark, we have to put a proper parameter. We have to take out from the parameter list and fill it up. And now, once your query is properly built up, all you have to do is get result list. It will return you a list of result. Okay? So, now here if you see that I am my output is like specific fields which I'm querying. Okay? So, I am accepting into an object of array. Now, you can do mapping like okay, zero would map to this field, one would be mapped to that field. That upon us. That we can do the mapping and return it. But, the main point here dynamic native query I want to tell you that you can even write complex queries which are dynamic in nature in the where clauses. So, you can write like this. But, here you have to do lot of work. Okay? First of all, you are creating a string builder, then you are creating a parameter list, right? All then you are taking the responsibility of replacing those parameter list into a question mark, then you are executing it, then you are doing proper mapping, and then return it. So, that is one thing. But, pagination and sorting I will also tell you in the native SQL in both the approach with a dynamic or with the direct at the rate query, that also. But, I hope dynamic native query is clear. How it is actually used. So, first way in the dynamic I would say that dynamic native query way. How can you can use in pagination and sorting? So, see it's very simple like how we are writing a plain SQL, the same way we have to write it. Like nothing no different syntax we have to remember. So, I have written a proper query which I wanted. All the if else condition I have dynamically I added it and properly added into the parameter also in this list. Okay? Now, I have to append like a sorting. Let's say I want to sort order by. So it's the same query builder. It's a string only, right? Query builder. Append order by like in the same query after all where clause has been done. After all where I have to do order by whatever the append with descending. It's a normal SQL queries. We are just a string builder. It's just appending. Okay, so sorting is done. After that for pagination in the plain SQL query, what we have is limit and offset. So the same thing we have to set like query builder. Append limit question mark, offset question mark. Now we have to put it into a parameter list also. Parameter. Add size. So this is ultimately your size. Okay, like in one page, how many records? And then offset. Like page number, page zero, page one, page two, like so this would be your offset. Okay, now we get a native query. We just replace the question mark in the native query with the values which is present into this one. Okay. And then ultimately executed the query. Okay, so it is as straightforward as it is. Like nothing. But if we talk about pagination in the like how we can do it like if we are using at the rate query annotation and native query equals to true. It's the same way how we were doing in JPQL. We have a method page pageable parameter which we can append it. We don't have to write anywhere here. Okay, that automatically JPA will do this for append it for us. Okay. Now in the just request, we can just send the page request.of. Okay, what is the offset page number and the size of a page? Okay, and if you have to sort it, you can like this. We have already discussed in the JPQL before itself. So it is same, nothing different. And if you see the query it will generate like this. It will automatically add offset pagination properly for you. So, this is one detail like I have a user details. Okay, 1 2 7. And if your query is like on phone. So, this 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. So, we are sorted by phone descending. So, 7 6 5 4 3 2 1. And page zero and five. So, 1 2 3 4 5. So, this will come 7 6 5 4 3 2 1. Five in one page. So, guys, if you think that I'm going little fast, it's because we have already covered most of the things in the previous videos. So, this pageable and all we have already seen this query notation we have already seen. Nothing much differs than the native query. It's just like native query equals to true. Okay. So, it's just like a context like how it is actually used. Rest everything is same. Okay. So, if you are finding the pace little bit fast, it's I would highly recommend that please watch out the previous video. That would help you to set up a context like why it's linked with the previous video. Okay. Now, one question to you comes to your mind, right? Hey, Shash, we have JPQL. But I feel that native query is much more better. Even though it has a very much DB dependent, but at least I can write dynamic queries. And this is something which is very important in the industry, right? Because we have everything dynamic which like no queries is static. So, then I think JPL JPQL we will never use it. We will always go with this. So, it's there, but with the name criteria API. Okay, you know that JPQL biggest advantage is that it is managed by JPA. And when it And when it is managed by JPA, you know that there is a framework which takes care of updating the caching persistence context and entities lifecycle. You don't have to worry about object uh which one is creating, which one is destroying. So, everything is properly taken care. So, with native SQL, everything comes to your bucket. You have to handle it. And also, it is DB independent. In future Once you return, in future you change from MySQL to something else, nothing got changed. Okay? So, criteria API comes into the picture, where it supports like the same JPA enable like JPA manage this. It works on entity, not on direct DB. So, it's DB independent. Okay? And we can write dynamic queries with this. So, native SQL query support dynamic query building, but they're database dependent. That's why JPA criteria API exists. It is allow you to build dynamic type safe queries without writing raw SQL. Okay, you don't have to write a raw SQL where you get a chance that you are you are writing, right? Select asterisk from If you don't know SQL query, let's say you mistake with A you you wanted to write A&amp;D, but you write AMD. So, there is like not a type safe, but here it's a type safe because everything now we are dealing with object. So, syntax-wise, it would be like you don't have to worry about that. Here everything is a string. You are putting a string. If there is some mistake, you won't get it. So, that's why I'm saying it's a builder dynamic type safe queries. Sometimes some engineer feels that criteria API is very difficult to understand, but I feel it easy if you understand it through hierarchy. So, this is the hierarchy which I have created. This will give you a quick glance like how we can create criteria APIs in a very simple manner. So, the first is criteria builder. This criteria builder is used to create everything. Okay? So, first criteria builder we use to create a criteria query. This criteria query is nothing but your actual query which you want to write. But, here we are not writing direct string. We are using it through object. So, in this criteria query, we can do from, we can do even join. We if we have to like select only a specific columns, we can use multi select. If you have to do all columns, we can use select method. We have like a where where you can put filters. So, filters like condition here it is defined through predicate. Okay? You have like and, or, not between different conditions. You have order, group by, having. So, all comes under criteria query. You can whatever it's required to build a criteria query. You will find different method here. Once the query is created, okay? Now, criteria builder helps you to execute it. So, after that, once the you got a query, now you have to execute it. So, here it has something called type query object which executes the above criteria query which you have created. So, this type query also has multiple field like get result list. It will return you a list of rows like so it's you will accept like a list of something. Get single result only you will get one object. Let's say user one object. It also have certain like where you can put up a generation like things set first result it's like an offset. Page number 012 and maximum result in one page what is the limit. So if we understand this hierarchy then it would be very very easy to use criteria API to write any query. Okay, let's see one example. I have created one controller class. Get user details by phone criteria API. So it's a dynamic I'm building like if phone number comes then only added. Okay, and whatever the phone number I'm sending use it. So this is the get API. Now in the service class if you see what I am doing is I am using entity manager. This is my criteria API where I'm doing. So I've got a phone number. What is the first step in the criteria API? We have to create a criteria builder. Because from that criteria builder itself we will be creating a criteria query and executing that query. So we use entity manager from that we do get criteria builder. We get now criteria builder object. First step is completed. We created an object of criteria builder. Now from this criteria builder we have the second step is to create a criteria query. Okay, this is the second step like we have to create a criteria query. So now from the criteria builder I am creating a criteria query. Okay, now what is this internally? Internally what my each row looks like. That we can tell. Let's say that if you have a query where you are doing a stress, means all the objects, all the objects. All the fields of a particular entity. Okay, then you can do user details.class. If you have like a specific field like field one {comma} field two {comma} field three, then you can use object array. Okay? So, whatever your each row looks like you can add it here. Okay, so currently my here in this demo I'm using select a stress for now. So, for a stress is like since this we is we are talking about entity, so all entity you it's let's say user detail entity. So, each row is my user detail. Okay? So, now I have created the criteria query. Now from this criteria query I have actually have to create everything. Let's say select from where order by having. So, that I have to do. So, from this criteria query I am doing first like from which table. So, table name we have to give right? From which table it has to fetch the record. So, from this table I have to fetch the record. Okay? So, now the first table. So, it is possible right? From table one join let's say table two. So, this table one which is first one right? It is always known as root. The first one is also always known as root. Okay? So, now I have added the from clause. It is here in the root. Now I have to also like select either one row or multiple rows whatever. So, I am using criteria query, the same query. select user. Okay? Select all the fields of this table. Okay? So, first I told you, right? This user represent the first table. So, criteria query.select. If you have a specific fields, you can do criteria query.multiselect. And whatever the fields, like user.field1, {comma} user.field2, like this. But here I want all the fields, that's why I put user and I've used select, which is equivalent to select asterisk. So, okay, I have done this. I have done this from. Now, I have to use where. So, criteria query.where. Now, I'm adding a where clause. Now, in this where clause, I have to add condition. So, condition is here predicate. So, now I am creating a predicate. So, predicate is created here is like criteria builder. Criteria builder helps in creating a predicate. Criteria builder.equals. There are multiple methods. I will tell you. So, I want to like phone number equals to whatever the phone number is coming. You can make it dynamic, like if phone number is present, then only do this. Otherwise, don't do it. Okay? So, currently I am just writing like criteria builder.equals whatever the field name in the table you have. So, my this table, user table, like the first root table, user.get. This is the field. Okay? This is your entity field name, not table DB column name, entity field name. Maybe in DB it is known as phone underscore number, but actually in entity Java it is known as phone. Okay? So, I'm using that name. So, this object user.getphone, {comma} phone number which is coming from the input parameter. So, criteria builder.equal. So, it is like a condition. It is making like phone equals to the phone number which is coming. It is creating a condition. And I'm using that condition and putting into this via clause. So, with this I have also created a via clause. I don't want order by having and all. So, now I my criteria is done. So, I am using an entity manager create query. Now, I am creating a query out of it. Type query. Okay? So, I'm creating a type query out of it. Whatever the criteria query comes, I generated a query type query out of it which can be now executed. So, here JPA might have done some mapping or you can say that some translation what we have written and it gives us a type query. Now, this query directly can be written run I run get result list. Means return me more than what this query can return more than one row. So, that's why I use this and accept it into a list and return. Okay. So, just see this example. I have like select this from user details. So, these are the data present into currently my DB. 120 120 110. Three records. 1 2 3. Okay. I am trying to hit a get API. Phone number I am passing is 120 in the controller. 120 I am passing and the same 120 goes here. So, ultimately it it should do phone number equals to this one. So, I should only get the list of output where phone number matches to 120. So, here I will get only this two where 120 matches. Okay? And if you see the query, it is select kind of an asterisk, all the fields, from this is all my root, where clause, this is the predicate, and which is get it there. Okay? So, one question comes to my mind, right? Okay, in this predicate generation, cb.equals, what are different things we can do? So, here if you see, these all things we can do. cb.equal, like whatever the field from the table you want, then the value. Okay? So, generally any condition is like field equals to something, 1 2 3, field like So, this is the first field name, right? So, and the field name is from your root or table. So, it is check for equality where phone equals to 123. This is your condition. Then you have cb.not equal, field and the value, it would be like phone not equals to 123. Then cb.gt, which is greater than, like field and the value, phone greater than, greater than equals to, lt, less than, less than equals to. So, these are there in the comparison operator. Okay? Then we have logical operator. Logical operator means like cb.and, so like you have something like condition one and condition two. So, it also has this, criteria builder.and, predicate one, {comma} predicate two, condition one, {comma} condition two. So, like phone equals to 123 and name is like something like this SJ. So you have this is my condition predicate one. This is my predicate two and we are now just you combining it. Similarly CB.or, CB.not. It's not negation. So here if you see, I am creating predicate one. Criteria builder.equals phone this one. So it is one condition. I am creating another condition criteria builder not equals name AA. This is second. I have to now club it. So CB.and I club it and it will become my this predicate. And then I use put it into the where clause. Similarly string operations you have like CB.like also you have. This one you can use it like field name and how you wanted it. CB.not like So it's all very straightforward like this guy has all the possible where things which we can have like it has that. Like CB.in, CB.not Okay. So in it's a collection, right? CB.in user that get phone like in you will have like what all the possible values it can come here. So value.11.7. You can put anything. Okay? So similarly like you can use it not in. So here I will show you one example how to do select multiple fields. Okay, I till now I have shown you like select asterisk one but for the same criteria API you can do this. So first step we know we have to create a criteria builder object because this is ultimately used to be used to create everything. So criteria builder I used it to create a criteria query but here this one is like what each row would look like. So my each row would look like object array because field one {comma} field two {comma} field three. It could be a string, it could be long, it could be int, something. So, it's object array. Then, so this my second part is done. Then, the third one is like from my table one. Table one is known as root generally here. So, root whatever the table one. So, criteria query {dot} from, this is my table. Then, I have to putting a select like whatever all the fields. So, here I am using now criteria query multi-select because I can have not extras, I can have multiple fields. So, from this table user, I can have like whatever the fields I wanted to fetch. Then, I created a predicate, which is nothing but a condition and I put into the where clause. I created a type query out of this entity manager, pass this query and run it. Now, output would look like object array because this is what I told. My each row would look like this. So, and result list will return the list not one. So, list of each row would look like this. And I'm doing a mapping in the user DTO. Like object array first is a string, second is phone and in the new DTO pass like this and return it. Very simple. Okay? And it is also possible to do joining also. So, nothing much differ. So, here if you see, we have like from table one then you have like join whether inner join, left join, table two. Okay? And here in this we don't need on and something because we it is like a JPQL, it is on entity. So, it knows that this entity is related with this column. So, the same thing. I created a criteria builder. I created a criteria query out of this criteria builder and each row is looks like this because multi select I might be doing it. My table one from clause is this user details. So and the first table is known as root here. So this is my first table. Now I am joining my first table dot join. What type of join? Join type is inner. Either here you can have also write left right right join. And which table you want to join? User address. So here again if you open the user detail entity class Okay, there would be like at the rate one to one mapping and the field user address is the another entity. There whatever the field name I have right, I use that only. I am not using the table name of that user address. Okay, entity has a relationship. So this is the field name in the user details one to one mapping. Okay, so this root table first table dot join with this user address I want to do inner join. So it will like this it will come. Join your table one and this would be considered your table two generally. Means or I would say that since we are talking entity one entity two. Okay. So now from is done this join query is done. Now we have to do select. Now I have to do multiple right? Each row is look like object array so multiple select. Criteria query dot multi select. So one field I want from user root table. User dot get name. Second from the let's say from address table I want this city only. So this is my represent like a second entity join second table. So address dot get city. Then it's a predicate condition you added. You create a type query run it. Since it's an object array you have to do a mapping and return it. That's all. Okay, so this is as simple as it is. And paginations and sortings is also very much but not that complicate but here one thing is like we all have to add it like in the hierarchy if you see we have to use this methods to for the paginations. So here if you see this is how you can do. Criteria builder object, I created a criteria query. Now I am want select asterisk. Each row is my complete details. Okay, so user details I have added from clause. There is no join. I put select asterisk. All columns of user details select is like all column of this. Predicate, this is my condition where clause I have added into that. Now after this where clause I need to do sortings. Okay, so criteria query also has order by. So order by now you have to like which field. Okay, so whether descending this field should be descending increasing whatever. So you can find a field name like this user.get root right user.get whatever the field. And criteria builder offers like dot descending dot increasing. So you can use that order by name descending it will translate to this. And for paginations, once you get the type query now type query has this two method. Set first result which is kind of an offset page number maximum result what is each page going to look like and ultimate run it. So if you understand that hierarchy right criteria query is very simple right? All is like methods we have to end with. Okay, so if you see this like exactly same descending order and five. Like one page is five. I'm sending page zero five.
