Shraddha's side, welcome to concept and coding, and today in this video we will see an OAuth 2 implementation. So, if you have not seen the previous video where I have explained about what is OAuth and what are the different grant types, so I would highly recommend that kindly have a look at it once before jumping into the implementation. Okay? So, I will give you a very very quick recap. What is OAuth? OAuth stands for open authorization framework. It enables a third-party access. Right? Secure third-party access to user protected data. We have a different grant types like authorization code grant, implicit grant, client credentials, and there are two more, right? Which we have already discussed in the previous video. So, today I will do an implementation in a Spring Boot for this authorization code grant flow. So, before jumping into the implementation, let's have a quick recap of what is authorization code grant flow looks like. So, consider the resource owner, which is us, you, me. So, we have our data. Right? Where in let's say in one of the resource server, let's say Gmail. We have our data like mail, like some profile picture, Gmail, email ID, username, like we have and mobile number. We have our data present into the Gmail. And Gmail has one of its authorization server also. Okay? And this is client or Insta or you can say that any third-party app. Third-party app which we have to grant access to our data, but securely. How we can do that? We have seen that already. So, quickly first this third-party app has to register themselves. Register itself into the authorization server. Let's say in this case with the Gmail authorization server, they have to register this third-party app. So, Gmail will send them the client ID and secret, which this third-party app will store it. Now, what would happen is let's say that I am going and saying that hey, this third-party app, let's say Insta, I want to sign in, but I want to sign in using Gmail. I don't have an account on here. The first time I'm coming and I'm choosing sign in using Gmail. So, what it will do is it will redirect me to this authorization server. Right? This third-party app redirect me to the authorization server and it will send the client ID also in the request. So, what authorization server will do, it will give me a username password field where the resource owner, I have to provide my username my password of the Gmail. Right? Means I am providing the consent that yes, hey Gmail, allow this third-party app to access my this data. Okay? Once I provide this, this authorization server return the authorization code back in the response. Using this authorization code, this third-party app makes another API call to fetch the token. Right? And inside the request, it will pass code, uh client ID, and the secret which it initially got. Right? And it requests for the token. Once it got this all the details authorization server, it will return back the token. It could be the JWT token. Possible. Right? There are different type of token like opaque token, JWT token. So, it might return the token, access token. And now using this token, it will hit the API of this authorization server. Let's say Gmail API. Right? Gmail API, hey, fetch me the details of let's say mobile number or username and email ID. Depend upon what the third party want access to. Right? With this JWT access token with the OAuth 2 model we can access the API and through which we can fetch the user details. Okay? Now it got the token. So it has in the request it has to pass the token. Okay? Now once this resource server got the token, it will pass it to the authorization server, validate it. If it's valid like if the token is valid, it will return the details and based on that it will sure that sign-in is successful. Okay? If it is not valid, it will throw an error, like failure ultimately. So this is a very high-level flow which we have seen. Now we will implement it. But again before we jump into the implementation, we have to understand what is a difference between OAuth 2 and OIDC. Now you can ask me, hey, what is OIDC? Why it comes into the picture? So again, first the difference is full form is OAuth 2 is like open authorization. OIDC stand for OpenID Connect. What is the purpose used for? OAuth is used for authorization. Meanwhile, OIDC is used for authentication. What is the difference? See here in this OAuth 2 we grant secure third party access to user protected data. Means third party app, like in this case uh we are saying Insta, can have access to my let's say all the Gmail emails, my calendar data, depends upon what all the APIs are exposed. Okay? So, it can invoke the endpoint passing the token and fetch all my data, protected data. But, OIDC is mainly specific specific for authentication only. So, it's a layer built on top of OAuth 2 only. And enable the third party app to verify the identity of the user by an authentication server. Okay? So, understand the difference with this. Here, the only difference comes at this part. So, here it get the token, right? Once it get the token, if you are using plain OAuth 2, you can use this token, pass it to this resource server, and you can access whatever data you want. Right? All the protected data you can access of mine. But, with the OIDC, whatever the token you will get, generally it is known as ID token. ID token, which is again in the form of JWT only, but this ID token has all the info which is required for authentication purpose. You don't need to call any API and fetch any other data. In the OIDC, this token itself has all the limited very minimal information which is required just for authentication. Okay? This token ID token is not understood by resource server. This ID token is specifically for this third party app only that, "Hey, from this token you will get a minimal information, through this you can authenticate the user. But, this ID token cannot be used to access my protected data. But, with the OAuth 2, whatever the token you will get, with that you can pass it to the resource server, they understand that by passing it to authorization server. And then they can you can fetch the protected data. I hope you got the difference. OAuth 2 is like for authorization. You can fetch the protected data. For OIDC only for authentication. Uh once the token is received by the third-party app, they don't generally pass it back to the resource server to access more data. The token itself has all the information to require to authenticate. So token is generated as access token which is generally opaque or JWT form. Okay. So consider like a GitLab use case. Generally they return opaque token. Opaque token is uh not understood by the third-party app. Only it is understood by the authorization server. Okay. So use by third-party app to call the resource server APIs to access user protected data. Okay. So that's what I told you in the plain OAuth 2. Once the token is received, either JWT or opaque token. Okay. So this token is used by the third-party app to fetch the to call the APIs through which they can fetch the protected data. But here in the token generated by OIDC is that ID token which is JWT form only. Plus since it is built on top of OAuth 2, it also get us access token also. So it gives us both the capability. If you want, I can go ahead and call the API also and fetch more information. Otherwise, this ID token itself is contain all the information for authentication. So ID token is a JWT token which is meant for third-party app only. Remember this. I am emphasizing on this that it is meant for third-party app. This ID token is not sent to this resource server. It is not sent. Once it get the token, it has the minimal information. It has the minimal user info which can be required for authentication. Okay, we will see that. But first remember the difference. So the scope The scope is like read, write in the plain OAuth 2. In the plain OAuth 2, generally scope is at read, write. Like you can even call post APIs for writing. You got reading means you can allowing the third-party app to call the APIs only get APIs. Or you want to call even allowing them to call the write APIs. Here it is OpenID. The scope is OpenID. OpenID means it indicate the authorization server that this third-party app is only want to authenticate user. Okay? So there is a scope called OpenID. When the ID token is generated by the authentication server, authorization server, it will contain very minimal information in the token JWT. Okay? Which is required only for authentication. No read, write access is given. In the token itself, very minimal information is sent. Okay? If the difference is clear, let's jump into the implementation. So what is the step one? Step one is the third-party app. Now in this case, who is the third-party app? Our Spring Boot app, which we which we are writing. So third-party app, we have to register it so that in the response we can get client ID and secret key. So third-party app registration to authentication server. This is the first step. So third-party app is our a Boot app. Authorization server, currently we can pick a Auth0 and GitLab. Okay, so we can register ourselves and get the client ID and the client secret. So, we'll see that. So, here if you see if you open the GitLab, there you will see application. In the settings, you will see application. Inside that application, you give the application name. I give my Spring Boot app. The redirect URI, right? The redirect URI is that here if you see once the owner authenticate and provide consent, it redirect. It calls a redirect URI and passes the authorization code in the response. So, we have to set that redirect URI. And the scope which we have to select. So, I have select the open ID. Because I am only interested in authentication. Okay? So, only also gives read-only access to the user profile. Right? So, not much very minimal information. Grant permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect. So, specifically for authentication. And once you save the application, you will get client ID and the client secret which you can copy it from here. Okay? Similarly, in the OAuth Auth0 registration, what we can do is we have to provide the name. Okay? And here we have all the OIDC is uh turned it on. It also provide what signature algorithm which we have to use. I choose RS256 RS256, which is like a private public key. And uh like in the JWT, whatever the signing algorithm would be. So, here I'm defining that one. We have already seen that in the JWT uh part. And ultimately, I will get my client ID and the client secret here. Okay? So, we can see here like So, here if you see, I open the GitLab. So, now in this part, if you go to the settings, click on edit profile. Okay? So, there you will see application. If you click on the application, you will see this like you can add an application. I can add a new application also where you can give a name, redirect URI, and what is the scope you wanted to select. And once you do save application, it would be like this it will come like your client ID and the secret. Secret is like you can copy it one one time. After that, it will remove from here just for safety purpose. So, you can renew the secret. Okay? So, the old secret would become invalid. And the scope I choose is open ID, authenticate only. Similarly, for the Auth0 also, it's the same thing. You can open Auth0 and you can create add new application and then you can add it like this. Okay? So, here what I'm doing is I am registering myself, my application, and I'm getting a client ID and the client secret. Okay? So, this ID, what I have to do is I have to store it. Okay? So, in the application.properties, I am saving these details. Now, okay, we'll come to the pom, but here if you see, these are the configuration. These are the for the GitLab. And this is for the Auth0. Okay? So, two authorization servers I am adding. So, this is my client ID. This is my client secret. What is the scope? Open ID. Okay? What is the grant type I am using? Authorization code. Whatever the different grant type we have, right? In OAuth2, you can use anything, but currently I'm implementing authorization code. Redirect URI I have set like, okay, this is the API which uh authorization server has to call when they have to return me the authorization code. So, redirect URI authorization URI is something which like uh I have to invoke. So, here in this case, right? See this part. So, once this part uh this part. This is the URL. This is the authorize This is the authorize URL. Okay? And then I when I have to ask for token, this is the token URI. Okay? So, this is all the URIs I'm setting. So, what is the redirect URI, authorization URI, what is the token URI? What is the issuer URI? Issuer Issuer URI is nothing but like what Who is your authorization server? Okay? And JWK set URI is something like, where is the public key is stored? Like whatever the token you will receive, we have to sign We have to verify that token, right? So, in asymmetric encryption, the authorization server use the private key to sign it, and we have to verify it using public key. So, public key has to be read from where? That URL. Okay? So, these are mostly very very standard URLs. Right? And mostly here, if you see, and in the configuration your key, this part only change. GitLab. Now, here we have Auth0. So, if you have any other Gmail, so only all the links would be same. Only here Gmail would come. Or whatever their authorization server name would be, that would come. Okay? So, these are generally known as registration ID. So, registration ID I have two. One is GitLab, and one is Auth0. Okay? And these are the URIs which are present. Okay? These are also very, very standard URIs. So, like whatever the authorization server which you have, and then these endpoints remains the same. Okay? So, you will see mostly the endpoints remains the same. No not much difference. Only your authorization server becomes different. After that, the endpoints become mostly the same. Okay? So, we have added this two information. We have added this two authorization server, and we have to add this pom.xml a Spring Boot Starter OAuth2 client. With this dependency, all the libraries like which understand this configuration, there are certain specific OAuth2 filters code that would come to in our project. Okay? So, we require this pom. We added this application.properties. Uh okay? And in the securityconfig.java, okay? So, here in this case, if you see that, we want OAuth2 login. We don't want form. We don't want basic. We want OAuth2 login customize with default. Okay? So, we have added three things. pom, application.properties, and securityconfig where we have tell the Spring Boot that we want to go ahead with the OAuth2 login. And we have just added very, very basic controller, not required. Just like one default page. Because here we have set that, right? Customizer with default. So, once the authentication is success, it will try to hit the default page, localhost 8080 and the default default page. So, that's where I just written hello, you are logged in. And one specific APIs, if that one would be hit, it will say that fetch the details fetch the details successfully. So, very basic controller I have written. So, till now, what we have done is we have just registered over app. And based on that registration, we have set up the application.properties. Palm, we have added the OAuth2 dependencies. Security config we have tell to the Spring Boot that we want to go ahead with the OAuth2. And the basic controllers we have written. Now, let's see. Let's try. Only notice one thing that I have not created any user in the Spring Boot app. User is not there. My detail is present into GitLab or Auth0. Right? But not in the Spring Boot app. So, I am starting the application server. My application server is a started. Now, I am hitting localhost 8080 URL. Since it is like any request we have to authenticate, it will take me to the default login endpoint. Since we are using OAuth2 login and customize with default. So, with default login page is {slash} login only. Okay? So, it will take me to the login endpoint. So, two See, you will see this page. Two login with OAuth2 two authorization server. First and second. First is Auth0, second is GitLab. So, where this information is coming from? This information which we have set into the application.properties. One is GitLab, another is Auth0. And the authorization server is this issuer URI, gitlab.com. And this Auth0 generally give us a custom authorization server URI. So, this URI. Okay. Now, you can choose anything which you wanted to log in. Right? So, now let's say that if I choose Auth0. When I click the Auth0, it redirect me to the Auth0 login page. Right? Now, you see that I haven't written any code for all this redirection and all. It's working now. So, it automatically when I click here, it redirect me to the Auth0 login page. Log in to this to continue my Spring Boot app. And here I have to provide my email address and password. Once I did this, what what is the next step? So, first is registration, then it will give me client ID and secret. Done. Then what is the next step? Like uh I have to call the authorize endpoint. So, this is the authorize endpoint. Once you click here, it call the authorize endpoint. It goes to the authorization server. Authorization server will show me username password page, and it redirect me to the it redirect me with the authorization code. And using that authorization code, I will pass the token you endpoint, and ultimately I will get the token. And from there, it will use the token, fetch the details, and whatever the detail it will get, it will authenticate myself. So, all this thing happening in behind. Okay, once I provided the username password, it will redirect URI will get invoked. And after this, all this thing happening at the behind, and ultimately I am get logged in. We will see that everything what is happening in behind. Right? If you see, I'm able to log in successfully. If I hit /user endpoint, I'm able to call it. So, this is the second endpoint, right? That is also working properly, even though I have mentioned all the requests should be authenticated. So, how it is working, right? I have just given pom, application.properties, security config. All I tell to the Spring Boot that use OAuth 2 login with default. And rest everything works out of the box. Right? With these three things, everything works fine. So, a Spring Boot Security framework provide the complete functionality of OAuth 2 protocol. We don't have to code anything. But, here is one twist. When I tried to access this /user from the browser, it is working, right? But, the same API when I'm hitting through Postman, it is asking me to like again log in. It is not yet logged in. Why? Why so? Because a Spring Boot assume that OAuth 2 login would be done on a browser. So, by default it creates session. In browser, we it creates a session. That's why it is working. And here I am not passing any in the cookie what is the session ID. So, that's why it is asking me to log in again. Then you you one question comes to your mind, hey, then what 2 is stateful? Right? By default, the Spring created it as a stateful. But, we can make it a stateless also. We will see that. But, first we need to see the stateful. What exactly how it is working behind? Till now, we we don't know how it is working. Till now, all we know is that Hey, this I have added palm, I have added application.properties and security conflict. That's all. It worked out. But, how? Now, let's first discover that how part. So, we have already covered this part, registration part, right? This one is clear. You can open GitLab, add application, you can register your app. Similarly, in Auth0 also, you can register your app. Now, what would happen when I click when a user click on my app. So, this is now in our third-party app is our Spring Boot app. So, now when a user click on this localhost:8080 login, hey, I want to login. I have to show this two pages, right? Two authorization server where user can login with. So, what internally happen is So, default login page generating filter get invoked. Inside that, there is a method called generate login HTML. So, there it has like if it is a OAuth 2 login enabler, we have to show this page. And from where this get this information? So, here if you see something like OAuth 2 OAuth 2 authentication URL to client name. So, when you start an application, right? This get filled up from application.properties. Okay, so this is has all the information. So, it just iterate over it and just show this. Okay? It just show this information. So, now we know that okay, once I have print the once I click on the login URL, how I am able to see these two things. Okay, this filter helps in generating this page. Now, when a user click on any of the link, what would happen? When user click on one of the authorization server, this endpoint would get invoked. oauth2/authorization/registration ID. What is the registration ID? We have one registration ID is this. This is known as registration registration ID. I already told GitLab, auth0. Or there if you have more, these are known as registration ID. So, whichever link you click, that registration ID would get append. So, let's say if I am clicking GitLab, so / oauth2/authorization/GitLab. This API would get invoked. Okay? So, when this endpoint get invoked, this filter will catch it. oauth2AuthorizationRequestRedirectFilter.java. This filter will is also present into the security framework because of the dependency which we have added. So, now here if you see, here we have the authorization request. In authorization request, what we have, we have the client ID. I told you, right? The client ID the third-party app in our Spring Boot, the client ID would get there in the request, and then it will redirect to the authorization server. Okay, the request got now redirected to the authorization server. Okay, and of it invokes this API. Like whatever the registration ID you have picked, whether GitLab or Auth0. Depending upon that, it will have this all the URI which it has to invoke, and then it invokes the authorization appropriate authorization server. Okay? Then authorization server, if it is GitLab, it will ask you to provide your username password. If it's Auth0, again, email ID password. So, you have to authenticate the yourself, and also you have to authorize the Spring Boot app that they can access my request. So, once it is done, once it is done, the authorization servers calls the redirect URI, which we have set during registration, we have seen that we have set the redirect URI. So, it will invoke the redirect URI. Okay? And in the response, here if you see response, they have set the code, authorization code. Okay? So, which endpoint? This endpoint, this filter now catch this. OAuth2 login authentication filter.java is the one which catch this redirect URI. Now, what they will do? They will first make an authentication object out of this response. Okay? And then what they are doing is they are calling the authenticate. They are means passing it to the authentication manager, and authentication manager redirect it to authentication provider. So, since we are using OpenID, and what is the token it created? OAuth2 login authentication token. So, this is the provider which can handle this. OIDC authorization code authentication provider.java. So, this provider this authenticate method ultimately for this provider will get caught because this can support this uh token authentication object and also for open ID scope, this will support it. So, now here if you see, it do two things. Here till now I have authorization code. Authorization code is there in my this token. In token, I have already set the authorization code. Whatever I have got in the response. In the authorization response, I have got the code, right? So, I have set it and pass it to the provider. Now, what it will do is it is calling invoking the token URI of the authorization server to fetch the token access token response. Okay? And it also has the ID token also. From response, so whatever the response the response it goes, right? From this it fetch both access and ID token. Okay? So, it fetches the ID token. So, we are mostly interested in this ID token. During authentication, we are interested in this ID token which we get from this response of this. So, we take out the ID token and return back to authentication filter. Okay? So, ultimately here if you see, we call the authorized endpoint. It return back with the authorization code. And after that, I invoke the token URI internally. All happening internally. We are user is not even knowing about it. Okay? So, it invoke the token URI endpoint and it return back the ID token. Okay. Now ID token what I have done is So see, in the I have got the ID token. This is how ID token. If you see that, there is something called access token. This is not a JWT. JWT you remember that has three part. Okay, so part one, part two, and part three. Your header, your claim, and then your signature part. But here if you see this token has only there is no dot. So this is known as opaque token. Only authorization server understand what it has. We don't know. So but for OIDC ID token is is in JWT format. If you see this is this is JWT format. So here when it tries to do right create token, right? It uh parses So in the parsing you can see the information. It has all my information, profile, username, right? It has my picture. Like all all information it has. Okay? All basic information which is required for authentication it has. So this ID token is received at this provider which it return back to filter. Okay, and filter what it does is it just stores the token and creates an HTTP session. And once the session is created, it return that login successful. And if you see in the cookie, session is created. And that's why when you hit {slash} users, now cookie has a session. So it automatically give me an access. So if you understand this flow, this uh diagram could also help you a little bit more clarify it. So now user is clicking the login endpoint. Okay? It will goes to the filter chain. From there, it will goes to one of the filter. First is login. So, which filter? Default login page generating filter will get invoked. It will return me a list of authorization server which it get from the application.properties. It's just simply return it and shown to the user. Now, user would be shown two things like auth uh auth O and uh GitLab. Which one you want to authenticate? Now, once a user click on one of the server, this is the endpoint get invoked. Auth two authorization registration ID. In this case, it would be GitLab. Uh the filter chain will get invoked. It will pass the request to one of the security filter chain. Which filter? Auth two authorization request redirect filter will get invoked. It will redirect the request to the authorization server. Okay? And return to the client. But authorization server uh now it redirected the user to this. So, there a user has to provide username password. Okay? But its flow is finished. Its flow it's returned. So, it has returned it. It has completed its flow, but now you user has been redirected this where it has to provide the username password. Let's say GitLab, so it would be like a GitLab page. Once user has provided the username page, it will redirect call a redirect URI with the authorization code. Now, which filter in catches it? Auth two login authentication filter. It creates an authentication token object which is a nothing but an authentication object. It put authorization code here. It passes to the authorization manager. Authorization manager passes it to the authentication provider, which authentication provider understand this token and this is scope open ID is OIDC authorization code authentication provider. So, this understands it. So, what it does is it calls the token URI of the authorization server, passes the client ID, client secret, and authorization code. Okay? So, authorization server return access token, refresh token, and ID token in response. So, it will return the same to the filter. Now, it will what filter will do? See this. First filter is stored this token information into in memory or two authorization client service. So, we can also instead of storing in memory, we can also store it into the DB. We can do that. Right? We can implement this or two client service and we can override and restore it into the DB how we have seen where storing token into the DB. Similarly, this ID token, access token which we are getting from the authorization server, we can store it DB, but currently it is storing in in memory. And then ultimately it's create an HTTP session and restore this session into like whatever the authentication object, right? Which is coming. That is stored into the security context holder. And ultimately it passes call the {slash} localhost:8080/endpoint. So, it has created an HTTP session. So, this is the all the flow happen internally. And now, when you click {slash} users you are trying to access any API since the session is created, security context holder filter will get involved. It will pass to the HTTP session security context repository. It will fetch the session. And if the session is active, it will grant an access. It will grant an access. So, here if you see that here if you see that when the session is set it might not validate the token with each request. So, session is valid the request has passed through. So, it is possible that ID token becomes invalidated, but session is still active. Possible, right? Because now with every request my session is this filter get involved. This see that his session is present. If session is present, it will access the request. It is not taking out my tokens out of this in memory and validating that token hit that token is valid or not. It is not doing that. So, this makes our OAuth stateful. And that's the one of the reason that when Postman when I hit, it is not able to access it. So, how to fix it? We can make it a stateless. Right? And we can return the ID token in the response. So that the client will pass the token and we will validate the token every time with every request. Can we do that with this framework? Yes, we can do that. Very easily. So, what I will do is that the same flow like the same flow once the user two endpoint, right? Uh two authorization server. Let's say one is GitLab, one is Auth0. User has clicked this. Okay? The same thing. My redirect filter would get involved. It will pass this to authorization server. Authorization server will pass it to authorization code. Everything same. This will pass this authorization code, creates an authentication token. Authentication object will pass to the authentication manager with to authentication provider. It will reach to the OIDC provider, which will call the token URI, and ultimately which will return me the token, ID token. And when the control ultimate goes to the filter, what the first thing it will do? It will store it into in-memory first. Second, it will create an HTTP session and store it into the security context holder. So, in previous part, it was doing till here. But now, since I want to make it a stateless, I have to return that ID token in response. So, this filter is already doing all these things. Authentication filter already doing all these things. Now, I'm adding one additional functionality here. This is important. I am returning the ID token in the response body. How I am doing that? So, here if you open the OAuth 2 login authentication filter, see that. OAuth 2 login authentication filter. So, if we see that uh after authentication, its parent attempt authentication. Something was right. Attempt authentication. Yeah. So, after this uh OAuth 2 login authentication filter, control will come here. What it does is it will create a session, which we have seen here. So, let me zoom it a bit. Okay. So, it will first session strategy. So, it will create a session. We can't change it. This framework is already doing that. We can't delete that don't create a session. After that, it do successful authentication. On successful authentication, it will create a security context holder strategy. Security context holder. But after that, if you see there is one success handler on authentication success. So, this is this interface. So, it has What it is doing inside this? Currently, if you see that it hasn't provided the implementation. So, it is doing some default clean-up task. So, I have implemented my custom or success handler. And provided on authentication success implementation. And in that what I'm doing is I am in the response, I am returning the token. Okay. So, that's what I have just extended one functionality. From the same filter there is a method on authentication success. So, currently it's calling by default one which is doing some clean-up. So, I have just provided an implementation of it. And returning the token in the response body. So, see that first. So, that's what I have done. I have created one custom or two success handler and implemented it authentication success handler. And then provided an override. I have implemented this one. So, I have already have the authentication object, right? This authentication object has all the info. Okay. So, from this or token, I am fetching the ID token information. Okay. So, I'm fetching the ID token information and putting into the response. to make it a stateless. Okay? So, I have enhanced this filter, override one method. So, currently on success after authentication it is also doing nothing. I have just enhanced it, provide a custom implementation, and in the response added the token. ID token. Now, I started the application. And also, yeah, one more thing. In the security config, we have to tell that, right? You have to use this implementation. So, in OAuth 2 login, earlier we were doing customize with default. Now, I'm tell that, hey, the success handler should be this one, the mine one. So, custom OAuth 2 success handler. So, this is already at the rate component, so bean object would be created. So, I have just said that. When you initialize it, initialize it with this, not with the default one. Okay? And also, I make it a stateless. By default was if required, we have already seen that in the previous um form-based login. By default is this required. So, we have a specifically make it that is make it this is a stateless. This OAuth 2 login is a stateless, and this is the success handler which I want to use. Okay? So, now when I started the application, after authorization from the authen- authorization server, see, in response I got this token. Okay? And now you can Now, only one thing left. We have to utilize this token. And we have to validate it before providing us like access to any of the API. Right? So, now what we all to do is that now only one task left is client will pass this token with every request and we have to verify it. Now, let's say the client have to use the {slash} users. So, in the authorization they have to pass bearer token and this will pass this token. So, once this token will pass, we have to validate this ID token, right? We have to validate this. So, how to validate that? So, for that I have created a new filter. So, I have created an OAuth validation filter extend once per request filter. I've created a filter. Now, here if you see first I am doing is extracting the JWT from the request. So, from authorization bearer header, I am fetching the token. This is ID token which I got. Now, I am created one utility. So, this is one utility method that I have created at the rate component. So, I have created one method is token valid. Give me the token, I will validate it. So, now what I am doing? How I'm validating it? Now, see this token is generated by GitLab. And let's say that it has used this algorithm to sign it. So, this is an asymmetric encryption. So, they might have signed it through private key. We need its public key. Okay? And public key URI we have already sent into the application.properties. If we just go and recheck our application.properties once. Here, if you see that JWK set URI, this URL, these are unique for each of the authorization server. Okay? So, this is from where we get the public key through which we have to sign it. So, the first thing I am doing is I am finding from this token itself who is the issuer. Who is the issuer? So, I'm just finding uh I'm just parsing the token and taken out like who is the issuer, whether Git or Auth0 or something else. Once I get who is the token, I am using the framework itself, JWT decoder. We just put from issuer location. We just provide the location. Here it is a gitlab.com. Here it is Auth0 something, whatever the authorization server. Now this framework has the understanding that uh it will from the application.properties jwks it will load the proper authorization uh server URI. It will fetch the key. And from that key, it will decode it, our JWT. Verify it. If it is not verified, it will fail it. Okay? So, we are I'm just utilizing the framework. You can even write your own. You can have the URI. You can read the URI from application.properties. You can call it and verify it. But this is the JWT decoder already does that. All we have to tell is who is the issuer. From that issuer, it will load the URI from the application.properties and then decode it for us. Okay? So, verify and decode for us. So, what I'm doing is here after extracting the token, I am validating the token. Okay? And it will internally, it will you know that it will use jwks URI endpoint to fetch the public key. And it will validate it. And once it is validated, I all I am doing is storing the authentication object into the security context holder because without this login is not successful. Okay? So, I just created for the testing purpose, I just created username password authentication token. I just put like this is a unique username. And just put into the security context holder. Yeah, authentication is success. Okay? So, this is the filter I have created. Now, from the previous video, we know that we have to add this filter. So, that's what I'm doing. So, till now we have seen that we have make it a stateless, we have added our uh handler, which is used to return the token in the response. And now I have added this filter. Just before this. So, we we have to specify the place. So, now once you start the server now and hit this endpoint /users and the bearer token, provide the token, you will see that fetch the details successfully. So, I'm hitting the login endpoint. So, let's start the server. Now, I'm hitting the endpoint. Click on GitLab. It is verifying me. Now, it is asking the username password. Once I click it, it will call the redirecting, right? Redirect URI. And from there, in the response, I am returning the ID token. Use the ID token in the header, pass it, call it, you will get fetch the details successfully. Okay? So, guys, like if you think that it is too much information, please go through it one more time slowly with your hands. Things will become little bit more clear. I try to go in depth as much as possible uh to show you what all thing happening in background. So, see lot of things happening in background only. We are just seeing that here what internally happens. But, lot of thing happen like seamlessly. We don't even know. We just click there and everything happens. Right? So, go through it again slowly and see that how what to implementation works. Okay, guys. Any doubt? Let me know. We'll discuss further. Bye.
