=== Broker (1684s - 1891s) ===

What is broker? Broker is a single Kafka server instance. A broker is one which actually stores data and serves client. So you can say that it is actually the server. Okay. So with this diagram it become clear that you have a producer. We know that we have a topic we have a partition but they should it's again an application at the end. So they should also have a server right. So that server in which this partition are running you can say that it's known as Kafka broker. So it's actually a server Kafka server. Okay. So broker stores some partition of some topic. Very very important. Okay. At this point of time you will find this line little complicate. Okay. A broker stores some partition of some topic. See in Kafka you can have multiple topics. Let's say topic one order events. So this topic all the order related events goes to this topic. You can have another topic let's say sales event. You can have another topic. Let's say product events. Okay. And each topic we know that can have multiple partition. Partition zero, partition one, partition two. It can have two partition. Partition zero, partition one. It can have again three partition. Partition zero, partition one, partition two. So what this line means that a broker stores some partition of some topic. So one broker one Kafka server do not hold all this information. It do not hold all the topic and also whatever the topic it holds. It do not holds all the partition also. So you might be thinking then what about the topics or what about the partition which this Kafka broker do not stores where those will be stored I will come to that later when we discuss about Kafka cluster but at this point of time all I want is that you understand Kafka broker is that [snorts] it's a one single instance of Kafka server okay and it store some topic and some partitions. Okay, it do not store like complete all topics whatever we have and for each topic all partition or it's not like let's say topic one it have so it also need to have its all partition no it holds some topic some partition and that's why I have put into important note topics and partition are distributed across multiple brokers I told you that multiple broker part I don't want to bring that term now because I will discuss it when we will talk about cluster. Okay. So that part is clear broker part. Okay. Now we have consumer
