=== Solution is Idempotency (243s - 878s) ===

setting the idempotency equals to true. In the producer application.properties, we need to set spring.kafka.producer.properties.enable idempotency equals to true. So, if you are using Kafka version less than three, then by default it is false and we have to make it true. But, if you are using Kafka version greater than equals to three, it is by default true. So, we don't have to worry about it. So, what happened internally? We can say that, okay, if you use idempotency equals to true, these two problems will get resolved. But, how? That is the interesting thing, right? So, step one. We have uh starting the producer application. First time we are starting the producer application. What would happen? Producer will go to any broker, bootstrap server, any broker, "Hey, give me some unique ID." Now, broker will go to the controller, pass the same request that producer is asking for unique ID. Controller will generate one PID, producer ID. Okay. Whatever the next So, it just maintain a sequence number. In the next sequence number, let's say till 1,000 is used, it will just increment one, 1,001. So, it will return that, "Hey, this is the new unique ID." But, this unique ID is nowhere stored at this point of time. It just computed and returned it. And the broker returned this unique ID to producer. So, in a step one, when we start the producer application, producer now has one PID. Let's say 1001. Okay? Step two, producer send the request to the broker. What would happen? So, in the producer setup, I told you already. There are multiple stages, right? We have serializer, we have partitioner, we have record accumulator. Now, in record accumulator, I told that batches are created topic and partition wise. Okay? So, multiple batch, let's say topic A partition zero, topic A partition one, topic B partition zero. So, for each topic partition wise, batch is created. Okay? And events are accumulated within it. Now, when idempotency is set to true, this three information is more added. What is that? One is PID, whatever we have got into the step one. The producer ID, that is added. The base sequence, okay? For each topic and partition, a sequence is maintained, you can say. Okay? Let's say topic A partition zero, some sequence is maintained. Okay? Similarly, topic A partition one, sequence is maintained. Individual sequence is maintained. Let's say 0 1 2 3 4, it is maintaining its own sequence. For topic A partition one, its own maintained sequence. Okay? So, sequence is maintained topic partition wise. So, now this let's say this is the first time batches are created, so base sequence is zero. And last sequence is two. So, with each event which are stored in this batch, is assigned a sequence number. Event one, sequence zero. Event two, sequence one. Event three, sequence two. Okay? So, if I repeat it again, record accumulator, create a batch topic partition wise. Okay? And it also, for each event it add, it also append a sequence number. Okay? And once the batch is created, it also add that what is the base sequence number? Means the starting sequence zero. And what is the last sequence? Two. Okay? Sequence two is the last. Similarly, for batch two, topic A partition one, it has only two events. So, when event eight is stored here, it is assigned let's say sequence zero. Event nine, sequence one. So, pros uh producer ID, base sequence zero, and the last sequence is one. Similarly, batch three for topic B partition zero, it will maintain its own sequence. So, it has currently four events. Each event is assigned a sequence number. Event one, sequence zero. Event two, sequence one. Event three, sequence two. Event four, sequence three. So, this is the producer ID. Base sequence is zero, and the last sequence is three. So, this three additional information is added with each batch. You can say that this is a header information of the batch. And now this is compressed and ultimately sent to the broker. Okay? So, step two is clear? Producer send the request. Now, with this batch, producer ID, PID, base sequence, means event with the starting sequence number, and the last sequence means last event what is its sequence number. That is added and sent. Now, step three, the batch received by the broker, what would happen? Now, let's say the first time the request received from producer to broker. Now, producer is sending the batch to the broker. Okay? Now, this batch has let's say batch one. This is for topic A, partition P0. I have this process ID. This is the process ID which is at has this. And this batch has base sequence zero. Means this event one is sequence zero. And the last sequence is two. So, in this batch, there could be multiple events. So, the last event has this sequence. This information is sent to the broker. Now, broker, what it will do? Broker maintain in memory map for topic partition-wise. Okay? So, now it will check in memory map. Hey, for this process ID, PID 1001. So, for this process ID for this for this producer ID, for this topic and this partition, what is the next sequence number I am expecting? So, see, this is the first time producer is sending the request. So, we are seeing the flow first request. So, definitely broker doesn't have any batch doesn't have any in memory information. So, no map found at this point of time. So, when no map found means for this process ID, for this for this producer ID, for this producer ID, for whatever the topic, whatever the partition, okay? This is the first request I am getting. Okay? So, my expected is that this batch should have a base sequence zero. Okay? This is my expectation. It should sequence should be from zero. See See, order should be maintained 0 1 2 3 4 like this. So, when the first request come, the sequence should be zero. Okay? Now, it will check. Okay, this batch has base sequence zero? Yes. It is accepted. And it will create a map in memory map. Hey, process ID is 1001. Topic is A. Topic is A. Partition is P0. What is the last sequence I have read? Till two. Okay, till two, I am done. Now, let's say the next batch is sending by the producer. Second request. Let's say batch two it is sending. Topic A. Partition P0. PID, base sequence, last sequence. Let's say this is the scenario. What broker will do? It will check in memory. Hey, for this process ID 1001 for this topic and this partition topic A partition P0 what is the next sequence I am expecting? Okay? So, it will check its memory map. So, in the step one, we have created a map, right? Process ID, topic, partition. Okay? So, process ID, topic, partition, it get. Okay? Uh producer ID is 1001 1001. Topic A. Partition P0. Yes, a map found. What is the next sequence? Next sequence is last sequence till it read is two. Next sequence is two plus one. Hey, I am expecting the base sequence which you are sending, it should be start with three. So, in the map in this batch header, the base sequence should be start with three. If this is the case, this batch will get accepted. Otherwise, this batch will get rejected. And the producer will have to retry. And it will update the map. Producer ID 1001, topic is A, partition P0 till what I have successfully last sequence read five. So it will update till five. I have got it. Okay, the next time the batch will come it will check the same map. Okay, this is the producer ID. This is the topic. This is the partition it want to write. The next time expecting is five plus one. The next time expecting the base sequence should be starting from six only because till five I am done. Okay. Till five I have written the events. The next I should be getting six. So the next batch whatever it should be base sequence should be six. Then only it will accept the batch. Now with this both duplicate and message ordering issue is fixed. Okay. Now let's first try to see the demo of
