=== Demo (878s - 1343s) ===

it. Like here let me zoom it a bit. Let me first clean up uh everything controller so that we will start from controller one dot logs removed. Controller two dot logs removed. Broker one dot logs removed. Broker two logs removed. Everything is removed. What we have to do next is creating a unique ID. So we will create a unique cluster ID. So this is the cluster ID new. Now we have to attach two broker two controller with this cluster ID. Uh so here controller one I have to just copy this new cluster ID and update it. So here with the controller one, I have updated with this new cluster ID. Similarly, controller two also appended with this new cluster ID. Now broker one also done with this cluster broker one also done with this cluster ID broker two. So now two broker, two controller are now associated with one cluster. So they all belong to one cluster. That is done. Now what we have to do is we have to start the servers. So now let's start the server for &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; controller one. So this is Kafka server start we are starting. And here we will start for controller two. So start here, start here. So I have started both the controllers. So controllers are started. Okay? Now we have to start the broker. We have to start the broker here. Let me open a new tab. We have to start the broker. So I am starting broker one in this one and I'm starting broker two here. So both the clusters started and both the broker are started. Okay? Now let me start the server application producer here. Now just one see the application.properties. In application.properties, I have put enable idempotency equals to true. Okay? And here if you see in the producer config I I have already created order events with four partition two replicas that we have already seen. So, I'm just starting the producer application. Now, let's see order hyphen events. So, one uh partition 0 1 2 3 four partition two replicas each. So, that is also done properly. Now, what I have done is I have just written one API for idempotency check, very simple. So, here I have just used same key so that everything goes to the same partition. Okay? And here I am just iterating for loop. Message count is 10. So, 10 times it just produce a message. Okay? So, this is just for testing purpose. Very simple. This API count equals to 10. So, 10 time means 10 messages it will send. So, I just send send 10 messages with key. Okay? Now, here it see the which partition it goes? Partition two. It went to the partition two. And see the offset 0 1 2 3. Now, partition two, who is the leader? Partition two leader is three. So, our one I ID one is controller one, ID two is controller two, and ID three is broker one. If you remember, if you are following the series. Uh so, means partition goes to the leader three means broker one. So, now let's see. Now, let's see the broker one logs. So, here I am just dumping the logs. So, here if you see broker one logs the path we have already set up temp broker one logs partition two order events hyphen two it's like partition two and this is the first log. So, now here if you see what we are seeing here. So, the header. First thing is header. In the header what is the base sequence is zero. So, total 10 messages we have sent. Okay? In the 10 messages it let's say it goes into one batch. The what is the header? Base is zero. And the last base sequence is zero. Last sequence is nine. Zero to nine. Okay? And what is the producer ID is zero. PID is zero. Now here here if you see these are all the events. So, event one event two event three event four event five event six event seven event eight event nine event 10. So, 10 times I'm looping, right? So, 10 events. Now each event got a unique sequence sequence zero sequence one sequence two sequence three four five six seven eight nine. And in the header it just put like base sequence is zero. And the last sequence is nine. That's all. with this information the broker can now identify with this flow that there is a duplicate or not. Okay? If let's say retry happen Okay? And the same Now what is the next expected? Now, let's say I am hitting it again. I am hitting it again one more time. So, now let's see. Again, dump the log. Now, see. What happened? So, total 20. So, this is the first time. Earlier, base zero. Last sequence is nine. And now, this is the one. Next sequence is base sequence is 10. Last sequence is 9 10. Producer ID zero. So, it keep on incrementing. Okay? Because after this one, it's within the broker it has created a map. It has created the map, and in the last sequence it was written nine. Now, the next it was expecting 9 + 1 10. So, now when I hit again, the batch Okay? The batch base sequence is 10. So, it accepted it. And the last sequence is 19, so it will update it. 9 10. Now, the next time when the request or the new batch should come, it should have the base sequences should be 20. Then only it will accept the batch. Okay? So, got it? This is clear?
