=== some default config when idempotency is set (1747s - 1981s) ===

Now last but not the least when we set I do potency equals to true acknowledgement should always be all. Okay, you know that acknowledge could be like a zero, could be one and all. It do not like you can say that when I do potency equals to true, it should always be all. Why? Because let's say you are using acknowledge equals to one means only leader should get the update. Now let's say you send an event leader follower leader got the update, but let's say follower hasn't pulled it yet and it got crashed. Leader got crashed. Now let's say this follower becomes the leader now. Okay, now this producer will let's say send this event again retry because this leader crashed it didn't send the acknowledgement. Now it will resend this batch. Now it will reach to this leader different leader. Okay, now but this record is not yet copied to this follower. It doesn't have this information. It doesn't have this information so this will also get written here. So that's why we say that when you are using I do potency the default should be acknowledgement equals to all because it makes sure that either all leader and follower has the same information or none. Similarly, the retry is max int. It It cannot be have like 1 2 3. Because now retries are safe. With idempotency, retries are safe. You can do multiple retries. So, when we do idempotency equals to true, by default, producer is retries max int. Internally, sender thread will retry as much it want. Okay? But the default now set is max int. And the third is the max in flight. It should always be less than equals to five. You can't set six or seven. There is one reason if you read the Kafka documentation, they specifically mention that the guarantee, okay, of this ordering is only for five sequence. For this topic, this partition, topic partition wise, it maintain a sequence, right? So, it has a buffer only for five sequences. Okay? Let's say topic A, partition P0. Topic A, partition P1. It just maintain a buffer of five sequence. That's all. Okay? Why? Maybe while developing the Kafka broker and all, they have went through multiple iteration to determine what could be the best number. Because see, the more the buffer, more retry, more complexity. Okay? So, their documentation said that the buffer they hold is only for the five sequence. Okay? Means five in flight request maximum, you can get guarantee of an ordering. Okay? if you do six and seven then Kafka will throw exception here. If you have set idempotency equals to true. The number should be less than equals to five. It will not allow you to have more than this number because after that the ordering guarantee is lost. Okay. So very important from the point of view
