=== Loophole in Idempotency solution (1343s - 1747s) ===

Now, there is one loophole. What is that one loophole? If you double-check the step one. Okay, what was the step one when producer application start up? It will ask for unique ID. Broker ask for controller. Controller generate a new ID. Return it. But, there nowhere it is stored that hey, this producer its ID is 1001. What happen if this producer restart? It will again send the request. It will get a new ID. So, understand this flow. Understand the loophole. Producer first time send give me producer ID. It will return 1001. Now it send the batch. Topic A, partition zero. Producer ID is 1001. Base sequence is let's say three. And the last sequence is five. Let's say it send this. In the log, broker has written it. Header. Whatever the header Whatever See, for broker, it just simply write it whatever you will send me. Okay? So, in the header, base sequence three. Last sequence is five and the producer ID 1001 I have written. And in the batch, whatever the events here I have with event appended with the sequence, right? Event one, event two, event three. Each with base sequence three, four, five. I have written this. And also I have updated the map. Producer ID 1001, topic A, partition P0, the last sequence I have got is five. Now what is the next it is expecting? 5 + 1. So, next base sequence should be six. But let's say producer crashed. Let's say producer got crashed. And it restarted. When it restarted, it will again send hey give me a producer ID. And next time broker will Broker goes to the controller. Controller will return let's say 2001. Because Controller doesn't maintain any information that hey this is a producer. Earlier I have written 1001. No. With idempotency, this information is nowhere maintained. Every time producer ask a request give me a producer ID, it will generate a new one. Now let's say it retry this one. Because let's say this got crash. It missed the acknowledgement. So, it will retry it. Now let's say that Retry in the sense because let's say it maintain some DB. In that one for this information it is let's say it's in progress. It is not processed fully and again create the request and send it. So now again batch one again I am sending topic A partition P0. Now the process producer ID is 2001. Earlier it was 1001. But the base sequence is three, last sequence is five. The same thing same events I am sending again. But here now producer ID is different. Now if you see the log what would happen? It will store it because see the map it maintain is producer wise. Producer ID PID topic partition wise. Now here I am getting different producer ID 2001. Now for 2001 producer ID topic A partition P0 there is no row. So it will accept it let's say and it will say that okay the last sequence I'm expecting is uh I got is five. So there is a chance of duplicate. This is just an example. Uh let's say whenever the first time it happened always started from base sequence zero. But this is for understanding. Because now the producer ID is changed it will not be able to identify that hey five till five I have already written. Now I am expecting five plus one six base should be six. No because producer ID is now different. So it will store the duplicate. Let's see this. Okay. See I have for the producer ID zero I have already this accepted the last sequence is 910. I am just stopping the producer application starting it again. I should have gotten new producer ID. Now I'm sending the request again. Now let's see see the dump again. Okay. So three. First is producer ID zero, base sequence zero, last sequence nine. Correct. Producer ID zero, base sequence 10, 19. Correct. But now here if you see new producer ID I got, producer ID one. So whenever the you restart the producer, you get a new producer ID. And let's say if it retried, if it send the same batch again, it would be able to write it again. Because producer ID is different. This is just an example I wanted to show you that there is a loophole. That when a producer restart, it get a new PID. Why? Because in case of idempotency, controller do not maintain that hey, this is the producer ID, this is the producer ID this is the producer, this is the producer ID I generated before. No, it doesn't maintain this information. For that, there is an other concept called transaction. I will tell you about transaction after I complete consumer and consumer groups set up, too. Okay? Because there are scenarios where transaction is helpful to avoid duplicate. In this scenario, producer restart scenario, and also when consumer fails. Okay? I will tell you, but idempotency solves certain problem, but there is a loophole which transaction resolves. So you can say that with transaction, controller maintains information. Sorry, that producer let's say this is the producer one. This is the ID I generated. Now if producer restart, it will always get this ID only. I will tell you what all problems this transaction resolves? Okay, but after consumer and consumer group setup because it solves producer restart issue plus consumer restart issue also. What if consumer got failed and got restarted? Okay, but for that we need to set up the consumer first. But I do potency is clear, right?
